2025-08-21
Belgrade
https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-wxQjFJ9/0/LzqJZpzkwtGr93DBm88CXLqV5nBC4q227WfrBP696/X3/i-wxQjFJ9-X3.jpg
Quick Trip to Beograd
August 19th, 2025 - August 21st, 2025
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2025/MyFirstGallery/n-QtrW2J

Belgrade, Serbia. This is a city I had wanted to properly visit for a while. Growing up, I had a couple good friends who were Serbian, through whom my interest in this part of the world blossomed, and leading to me ultimately ending up in Croatia learning Croatian. Funny how that works. But, even with all that personal history, I had only really visited it once. A few months after I moved to Zagreb, I went to Serbia to meet my Russian friend, who had moved to Aranđelovac, and we ended up spending ten hours or so in Belgrade. Later, while my buddy and I were on a road trip through Eastern Europe, we passed through Belgrade, but were tired enough from the road that we ended up driving straight through to Croatia. I'd also had several layovers in Belgrade airport, but never long enough or at the right time to leave and do anything. So, for all intents and purposes, this was the real Belgrade trip.

We took a FlixBus from Zagreb to Belgrade, leaving at around 11. Bus ride was about six hours long, not great, but I had worse. We ended up playing *Mario Party* on my Switch together, which was a lot of fun. When we stopped at a gas station for a break, another passenger noticed us speaking English, and came up to talk to us. Turns out he was a Mormon on mission, as was immediately apparent by his attire as soon as he started talking to us. He had been in Ljubljana, but he was moving to Belgrade, and was asking us questions about the city, Zagreb, etc. He was really nice, and didn't try to convert us, so we had a good chat before we went on to Belgrade.

We got into Belgrade around 5 PM, and took a taxi from the bus station to our AirBnB. We waited a bit for our host to arrive, and despite me greeting him in Serbian, he struggled through English to give us the apartments on entry, the key, et cetera. I suppose I could have pushed the "you know, I understand Serbian," but I was with my buddy who only spoke English, and he was a younger guy, maybe teenage or so, who was clearly trying his best to speak English, so I kept quiet. After checking in, we were hungry, so we went to a bar near our AirBnB that had been recommended to me by some friends from Zagreb, [Axiom](https://maps.app.goo.gl/fqSyBKAMABBXWZyRA). They greeted us in Russian, which I understand, but don't really speak well, and was not the language I was expecting to hear, so I kinda just went "huh?" and he switched to English. Turns out it was some kind of Russian bar in Belgrade, even though the brewery that owns it is Czech. Out of all the people there, we were the only ones speaking English, everyone else was speaking Russian. But, the menus were in English, and everyone was wicked friendly, so it wasn't a problem. They also had some craft beers from Russia, which I hadn't really had an opportunity to try before, due to sanctions. (*Serbia is not an EU member state and maintains close ties with Russia. Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine, many Russians avoiding the war or political persecution have relocated to Serbia, one of the few European countries still open to them.*) The food was also wicked good for bar food, much more than I was expecting. So even my buddy, who doesn't drink, was happy. After dinner, I bought some beers and merch for the road, and we went back to our AirBnB and watched *Brooklyn 99* before going to bed. We also ended up Glovoing McDonald's like four hours after having dinner at the bar, because we were still kinda hungry. Yanks, am I right?

The next day was our tourist day. We got up, got ready, and went to go find an ATM. I spent a lot more at the bar the night before than I was expecting, so I was already out of dinars. We followed Google Maps to one, only to find that despite Google Maps listing the ATM's hours as opening at 9:00, it was within a mall that didn't open until 10:00. Nice. So we went to find another. On the way, we passed a bakery, and decided to stop for breakfast. That was at [Taze Toplo](https://maps.app.goo.gl/1aKoEzzVRNR29g1K8) (Fresh Warm), and we got some bureks. I teased my buddy about his inability to eat burek without dropping flakes everywhere, but it was still pretty good. Definitely hit the spot. After that, we went to the walked around the center a bit, bought our souvenirs, and took plenty of pictures. After walking around for an hour or so, we went to Kalemegdan Park, a park in the center of Belgrade within an old fortress. That was really cool, and we hung out there for a bit. In the park we found a bunch of tanks, air defense, and artillery, so we were admiring those and getting pictures with those, and then we found out they were part of Belgrade's [Vojni muzej](https://maps.app.goo.gl/r259HHvkPyt16Lo26) (Military Museum), so we decided to visit that.

I wasn't sure what to expect going to a military museum in the center of Belgrade, but it ended up being really cool. They had artifacts from every era of Serbia's history, from medieval times, the old Serbian empires and their Ottoman conquest, all the way up through the World Wars and the 1999 Kosovo War. They even had the canopy of the F-117 Nighthawk that had been brought down by Serbian air defense during the Kosovo War, which was really cool to see in person. Belgrade also has an aviation museum, where they have the rest of the fusilage of the stealth bomber, but that's been "temporarily closed" for years, with a planned reopening in 2027. Oh well. Outside the military museum there was a souvenir shop, with a bunch of medieval stuff and a lot of old maps, which was wicked cool. We ended up chatting with the shopkeeper for around twenty minutes, and I felt a little guilty when we ultimately ended up leaving without buying anything. Those maps were really cool, and she was explaining the history behind them really well with a lot of knowledge, but they were not cheap, and we were going to Sweden and Denmark in a few days, which I expected would stretch our budget to its limits.

We then walked to lunch. That was at [Docker Brewery & Beer Garden](https://maps.app.goo.gl/PfAgcLngjhbsYKAy9), which, appropriately, was in a large repurposed warehouse on the docks. At lunch time on a Wednesday it was basically empty, but it was a huge venue that looked like it would be a really cool place to spend a night out, and they had posters for different events and gigs they had going on there. They had really good food too, so that's always a plus. And the beer was also pretty good. After lunch and walking around all day, we were pretty exhausted, so we went back to the AirBnB to hang out for a bit. We wanted to see St. Sava's Temple and the Nikola Tesla Museum, but we ultimately ended up skipping those, due to their distance from our AirBnB and our fatigue. After hanging out at the AirBnB and watching *Brooklyn 99* for a few hours, we went out for dinner. Looking at Google Maps for nearby places, we found [Ćevap kod Dekija](https://maps.app.goo.gl/qSEfFVPQj45c4dWKA) (Ćevapi at Deki's.) (*Ćevapi are small small skinless Balkan grilled sausages made from minced meat, generally beef, pork, or a mixture of both.*) The place was completely packed with locals, so that's always a good sign. We ended up getting an order of the ćevapi and an order of the spicy sausages, and splitting them both 50/50. Everything was excellent. After that, we went back to our AirBnB, and the next morning, we would leave at 7:30 AM, taking the bus back to Zagreb. Belgrade's pretty cool, and there's so much to see that I just haven't yet.