2026-06-04
Brijuni
https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-mHJVsxH/0/MsT9Gmh2FCGz65SRV5gW6qTCfj7KNzJC4C3drcv7T/X2/i-mHJVsxH-X2.jpg
Sailors in a Big Green Boat
June 4th, 2026
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2026/Brijuni---June-2026/n-RpJDH4

Brijuni! Somewhere I've really wanted to go to for like three years, but somehow never made the trip out to. Until now, obviously. Brijuni, or Brioni in italiano, used to be the private summer residence island of the Yugoslav president Tito, where he was visited by heads of state, foreign dignitaries, and Western models and actresses, but shortly after his death, the islands were made into a national park. Brijuni is made up of several islands, with the most notable being *Veli Brijun* and *Mali Brijun* (Large and Small Brijun, respectively), with the bulk of tourist infrastructure being located on Veli Brijun, where we spent the entirety of our time on Brijuni. Notably, Veli Brijun also has very diverse fauna, partially due to Istria's immense biodiversity, but also contributed to by Tito himself importing all sorts of exotic animals for his own entertainment, with foreign leaders often bringing their own local fauna to Brijuni as gifts to Tito. On Brijuni, you can find zebras, alpacas, peacocks, ostriches, sheep, deer, mouflons, waterbucks, and much more which I would go into in more detail if I was writing for *National Geographic* and not my personal blog.

So, enough history and background, onto the trip itself. I'm currently the mentor for a cohort of thirty-odd students from the States doing a summer study abroad program in Croatia, answering their logistical questions, being there to provide support or guidance where needed, but most relevantly here, organizing relevant cultural outings and providing guidance on things to do not only in Zagreb but in the wider region. For several of them, I've moved largely away from the "official mentor" role and more into a "knowledgeable local friend" role. They're just really cool people, and it bums me out that they're only here for a few weeks in the summer. Some of them were talking in the hall after class about visiting "that island with the zebras", and asked me if I had ever visited it and if I had recommendations. I mentioned that I had never been, and if they ever wanted to, I'd be happy to go with them. And so I did.

We wanted to make this a day trip, as Thursday the 4th was a national holiday in Croatia, *Tijelovo* (Corpus Christi), so they had the day off of their classes. But the next day, several of them were flying to Malta, so they had to be back for that. But making a day trip to Brijuni was a tall order, given that the nearest city, Pula, is over five hours away from Zagreb by bus, and from Pula, one must then go to north to the nearby village of Fažana to catch the ferry to Brijuni. But hey, it's not all just fun and games, it's my job to figure out their logistics, so figure out I did. They were all coming over Wednesday night just to hang out at my place to play some games and listen to music, and there was a 2 AM bus to Pula, so we decided just to stay at my place until around 1 or so, then catch a cab to the bus station. There were exactly six of us, so I decided to schedule an UberXL to the bus station for 1:15. But, it seems I learned nothing from the [Motovun incident](#/blog/trst2025), and the van never came despite paying for it and scheduling it. So, we quickly ordered two Bolts, one of which arrived basically instantly, the other we had to wait fifteen minutes before. I took the latter Bolt, and we made it to the bus station with fifteen minutes or so to spare, so everything ended up being fine, even if we did spend about twice as much as we were expecting to on transit to the bus station.

Zagreb is a very clean and largely well-maintanied city (even if half of it is covered in scaffolding and construction), but the Zagreb bus station does not really meet either of those definitions. Two of the students from the US were fellow Massholes, so after walking off for a bit to verify we were at the right platform, I commented to those two that it smelled like home, referencing the MBTA (Boston's subway & bus network). They said Boston was way worse, but declined my offer to go over to where I had been checking the bus routes to see what I really meant. Smart. We got on our bus without issue, and began the over five hour trip to Pula. Being a great mentor who should be given an excellent evaluation at the end of the program, I had packed melatonin for everyone, because sleeping on a night bus can be difficult, especially if you're not used to it. None of them ended up taking it however, and I didn't take it either. I have a prescription to Xanax, so I just popped two of those, and after some tossing and turning to try to get comfortable, passed out until we got to Pula. The bus had several stops along the way, which would normally have woken me up, but I was out.

It turns out I was the only one who slept well on the bus. Go figure. We got to Pula a little after seven in the morning, and were all starving, so we went to [the bakery right by the bus station](https://maps.app.goo.gl/NcyV7CAzki75tuFVA) to grab a bite to eat. (I got a slice of burek with meat and half a liter of chocolate milk, for anyone wondering.) After that, we had a couple hours until the first ferry to Brijuni left, so we decided to explore Pula a bit. We walked by what undoubtedly is the main attraction of Pula, the *Amfiteatar u Puli* (Amphitheater in Pula), a large well-preserved Roman amphitheater constructed in the Roman settlement of *Pietas Julia* under the reign of Caesar Octavius Augustus in the first century B.C.. It's not as large as the Colosseum in Rome, but it's actually older, fun fact. In Roman times, it was used for gladiator fights, but nowadays, it's mostly a tourist attraction and concert venue, featuring acts such as Sting, Arctic Monkeys, David Gilmour, Duran Duran, Dua Lipa, Elton John, Lenny Kravitz, and Foo Fighters. It was too early for us to go in, but we were able to walk around the outside and get our pictures. From there, we went over to the *Katedrala Uznesenja Blažene Djevice Marije* (Cathedral of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, which despite the mouthful of a name, is actually the official name of many large cathedrals across Croatia, including Zagreb's famous *Her Lady of Perpetual Maintenance and Repair*.) From there, we hiked up to *Pula Kaštel* (Pula Castle), a seventeenth century Venetian fortress overlooking the city of Pula. It was also too early to enter, but we hung out on the lawn of the castle with some local stray cats until it was time to leave. We then hiked back down to the cathdral, where we ordered an UberXL (which actually arrived this time!) to the nearby village of Fažana, where we would catch the ferry to Brijuni.

The ferry to Brijuni was €30 a head for students, and was about a fifteen minute ride from the port of Fažana to the island Veli Brijun. It was wicked packed on the ferry, which didn't bode well for crowds on the island, but it was big enough, and most of them were on guided tours, so for the most part we were unbothered by crowds, as we didn't follow "traditional routes" so to say, we more picked a direction and just wandered off. A local I had been talking to earlier this week recommended we rent bicycles or a golf cart, as the island was far too big to see in a day on foot. But, after seeing the prices (€35 a day for the bikes, or €300 a day for the golf carts), we elected to go it on foot.

From the port, we wandered off into the woods to some abandoned and overgrown enclosure of some sort (the *Safari Park* on the northwestern peninsula of Veli Brijun is still maintained, but many of the other menageries of the island were left in disrepair after Tito's death, leaving their inhabitants to escape and multiply across the island.) We saw a peacock in the enclosure, but when we went in to try to find it, we couldn't find it anywhere. There weren't any other obvious exits, so we joked about the "ninja peacock" and continued on. Two members of our group broke off to do their own thing, while the rest of us went north to *Uvala Ribnjak* (Fish Pond Cove), where we set up some camp chairs on the beach and had a drink. After hanging out there for a bit, we moved onwards towards the Safari Park. On the way, we did actually manage to see and photograph a peacock, and some deer ran by in the woods by the road.

The Safari Park had all sorts of interesting animals, including antelopes, alpacas, donkeys, cows, waterbucks, and zebras. One zebra in particular caught our, or most notably my, attention. What I found interesting though wasn't simply the size of its member, it was the range of motion it had on it. It was moving it independently as a sort of fifth limb, and most interestingly, it could fully retract itself into its body. My buddies noticed my interest in it, and we had a bit of a laugh about it. I would play up the bit and joke for the rest of the day with them about the zebra, mentioning how much I was thinking about it, how it had "awoken something in me," similar jokes. Also, that one particular zebra was having a very gassy day, which we had a laugh at. Farts. Hehe. Funny.

From the Safari Park, we moved on to the "dino park", where they had a large model of a dinosaur to signify the very real dinosaur footprints that were present on that part of the island. Cool. There was also a bunker there, which was largely flooded as a couple of my buddies discovered when they tried to go in, but it had a big round dome right in the sun, so me and my buddy just laid down on this big rock in the sun for a bit while the rest explored further. Apparently, I was out and snoring for around half an hour. We joked after that we were "lizardmaxxing" by just lying on a stone in the sun for a while. (And it really was nice!)

From there, we were all pretty hungry, and had finally succeeded in making contact with the two members of the group who had separated, so we agreed to meet on a bridge by the previously mentioned *Uvala Ribnjak*. They were much closer to the cove than we were, and shared their location with us, but by the time we had got there, they hadn't moved any closer to the bridge. So after sitting on the bridge for a bit, we decided to go find them. We were just moving directly towards them on the map, which took us straight through the woods rather than through the roads, which led us to a problem when we found ourselves at the edge of a cliff overlooking the enclosure where we had seen the ninja peacock earlier. We eventually found a way down the cliff without a need to plummet twenty meters (about sixty feet), and continued moving towards their location on the map. As we began to approach and look for them, we saw a large monument, and joked that it felt similar to scanning for a shrine in *Breath of the Wild*. We then met up with them, and went up to the monument. The monument read, in very flowery socialist-era language:

> *WATER*

> *THE MOST PRECIOUS TREASURE OF LIFE ON THE KARST*

> *FOR CENTURIES IMPRISONED*

> *IN UNKNOWN DEPTHS*

> *HIDDEN AWAY IN LIVING CAVES*

> *WASHED OVER BY THE AZURE SEA*

> *WAS LIBERATED*

> *THROUGH THE CARE OF*

> *MARSHAL COMRADE TITO*

> *THANKS TO HIM*

So, we gave our thanks to comrade Tito for discovering water, and got some pictures on the monument. From there, we went to go eat. Many of the restaurants on the island were far too upscale for our wallets at the time, especially with national park island price gouging, so we opted for sandwiches, pizza, and beer at [Kavana restoran Školjka](https://maps.app.goo.gl/smXHnTbC3Ncupawv8), which was definitely pricier than what we'd have to pay for a slice of pizza and a beer in Zagreb, but not too bad. Two of the national park workers who were on their break there warned us about one particularly aggressive seagull that had been stealing slices of pizza right off people's plates, and sure enough we spotted it eyeing us from atop a nearby lamppost, but thankfully it never forced us to defend our food from it.

After eating, we changed and went down to the beach to go for a swim. The water was a bit chilly, but not too bad. There was a lot of marine life in the designated swimming area, including snails, crabs, fish, jellyfish, and sea squirts. Two of the guys from our group decided to start collecting snails on the pier, and hosting mini "snail races" to find the "most racist snail." After an hour or so in the water, none of us knew where our towels were, so we laid in the sun for another hour to dry off. I went up to sit with my one buddy who hadn't brought a swimsuit and was sitting with all of our stuff on a hill overlooking the beach, and we brought the camp chairs down to the beach to sit where it was a little nicer. We put on *Cobra* by Geese, and both commented on our surprise to how well it fit the vibe. It was really nice just sitting there in the sun relaxing for a bit more, interrupted only by a family of German tourists arriving, yelling across the bay at their kids, one of whom they were letting run around the beach butt-ass naked, which was a little uncomfy for us Yanks. Germans, man.

After drying off, changing, and packing up all our stuff, we got on the Ferry back to Fažana. A few of us, including me, had lost our tickets, which we were worried about whether we would need to get back, but thankfully for the return trip to the mainland, tickets were not necessary. We bought some souvenirs at a small souvenir shop by the port, and then moved off a bit from the main port to more normal roads to call a cab to a restaurant in Pula that I had been to with my buddy last time I had visited Pula in 2023, and remembered being not too pricey and really nice, [Pizzeria Jupiter](https://maps.app.goo.gl/H5thfntaUiZkkKpL7). We waited at *Partizanski spomenik* (Partisan Monument), a statue of a Yugoslav partisan holding a rifle, dedicated to the fallen fighters and the victims of fascism from the village of Fažana. Written in both Croatian and Italian, the monument read:

> *The Organization of the Union of Fighters of the People's Liberation War\* of Fažana to the fallen fighters in the People's Revolution.*

> *To the Fallen Fighters and Victims of Nazifascism*

\* *A local term for World War II, specifically the fight of resistance movements across Europe against Nazi occupation.*

Two of my buddies had been doing "parkour" all day, recording clips of themselves jumping off walls, railings, trees, and the like, and were doing a kind of "balance-beam" type thing on the traffic barriers surrounding the monument. I later commented that they looked ridiculous, but I trusted their vision and the edited video would go hard, but here, I just quipped about them "dancing on the grave of the victims of Nazifascism." They had no idea what the monument was, of course, but quipped back that they were dancing and bringing joy to the victims, and that all their spirits were holding them up and preventing them from falling. Hell yeah. Eventually, the cab arrived, which was supposed to be an UberXL, but was just an SUV with only four seats available. So, four of them went to the restaurant, and two of us hung back to call another cab.

About twenty five minutes later, we finally met up with them at the restaurant, and they already had a table and drinks. Hell yeah. One of them told me they were waiting for me to order a beer, since they wanted my recommendation. I don't know if proud or honored or what is the right feeling, but I respected her for that. I asked what she was eating and made a couple recommendations based on what I knew she had liked previously and what she was having, and she ended up loving my recommendation, so I felt accomplished there. If I can do one thing well, it's recommending people beer. (She ended up getting a *Leffe Brune*, for anyone wondering.) I was thinking of just getting the calamari, as Croats do squid and octopus really well, but I decided to ask the waiter what his recommendations were for something "Pulan", as I lived in Zagreb and wanted to try some kind of Pula speciality. He recommended the house special, the *Njoki Jupiter*, which were gnocchi served with chicken, mushrooms, spinach, and prosciutto. And that was an excellent recommendation.

After an excellent meal, we walked back to the bus station, and caught our bus back to Pula. The trip passed largely uneventfully, except for me going to find a bathroom during our fifteen minute bus stop in Rijeka, and coming across five rats. crawling out of a grate on the floor. Thanks, *Autobusni kolodvor Žabica*. We then got back to Zagreb, where I briefed everyone on how best to get home from the bus station, and then caught a cab home myself with one of the others heading in the same direction. And immediately passed out when I got home, and slept until around 9:30 AM (normally, I wake up between 5-7).