2025-08-22
https://photos.smugmug.com/2025/Copenhagen---August-2025/i-T7NF2bD/0/MxSKm8Bn85FFhKVqk4ghZQvgRVFg7T2wgvhVTrcN9/X2/IMG_2086-X2.jpg
Sick Day in Copenhagen
August 22nd, 2025
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2025/Copenhagen---August-2025/n-tgMwrH

Copenhagen! Because we were flying with RyanAir, which has very cheap flights, but almost never reasonable schedules, my buddy, who was visiting Zagreb from Boston, and I, left my apartment at 3:30 AM to get to the airport. We breezed through check-in and security, and flew to Malmö uneventfully. "Malmö?", you may ask. "I thought you were going to Copenhagen!" That we are, but let me explain. Malmö is in Sweden, directly across the Öresund from Copenhagen. The two cities are about a thirty minute bus/train ride apart, with the eight kilometer (five mile) Öresundsbron bridge connecting the two cities. RyanAir had cheap flights to Malmö from Zagreb, and Malmö, while still wicked expensive, being Sweden, was significantly cheaper than Copenhagen, so we were staying there.

We arrived in Malmö early in the morning, but we weren't able to check into our AirBnB until later in the day. We had three days booked in Malmö, that is most of the day Friday, all day Saturday, and leaving Sunday afternoon. We were going to meet with some friends in Copenhagen Friday night, so we decided to spend all day Friday in Copenhagen, and Saturday and Sunday in Malmö. So, we arrived at the central train station, left our luggage in luggage lockers, grabbed a quick breakfast at [Gateau](https://maps.app.goo.gl/fteYsxcv6USDp7KX7), which, as I had to inform my American buddy, is a French word, not a Swedish one. I thought that was one of those French words everyone had just kind of heard before, but I guess not. At this point, I was feeling a slight cold coming on, but it wasn't that bad, so we pressed on.

After arriving in Copenhagen around eleven, we walked around for around an hour, took plenty of pictures, and bought some souvenirs. I was amazed by the bike lanes there. The bike lanes were huge, had tons of cyclists, and had their own stop lights and signage. I knew Amsterdam was big on bikes, but I had no idea that Copenhagen was. Cool. After that, we went to a pub my friend who used to live in Copenhagen had recommended, [Mikkeller Warpigs Brewpub](https://maps.app.goo.gl/dPVVzKzjXyrG71fy6). The food there wasn't exactly traditional, being American-style barbeque, which was pretty good, albeit wicked expensive, and not what I might have chosen to eat with my one day in Denmark (except for the fact that I did). Beer was solid too, Mikkeller is a Danish brewery that owns the pub, so all the taps were their various brews. Ten euros for a beer is a bit steep for me, but Copenhagen is an expensive city, so what can you do? I was wearing my *In Rainbows* shirt that day, and while we were eating, a middle-aged Dane came up to me and nerded about with me about Radiohead for a bit, asking if I had ever seen them live, and when I responded in the negative, raved about how good they were live. Oh, how I wished to have been able to hear them live. But they hadn't toured since 2018. Was cool talking with him, though.

Afterwards we left, and explored the center a bit more. Copenhagen is beautiful. The center is very picturesque, with basically any street you walk down just being flanked by beautiful and colorful buildings. Someone more knowledgeable than me might be able to rave about architectural styles and their historical signifigance, but I just thought the buildings were wicked pretty. We hit the LEGO flagship store, since LEGO is a Danish brand and we were in Copenhagen, we had high hopes. It was cool, but we were a little disappointed, it was basically the same as your average mall's LEGO store, but a little bigger (maybe twice the square footage.) After that, and walking around for a few more hours, I was beginning to really feel the symptoms of whatever I had, and the fatigue of leaving the apartment at 3:30 AM, so I wanted to sit down and rest.

We were nearby another bar that had been highly recommended, [Peder's](https://maps.app.goo.gl/U7rbUMyYr58RkvTWA), so we went there, and that was a really cool spot. It was a cozy little bar nestled in a basement with minimal signage. By Copenhagen standards, it wasn't too expensive, and the bartender was really cool. And they had an amazing assortment of beers from all over the world, and really good stuff. Like high four averages on Untappd good. The bartender also noticed my *In Rainbows* shirt, and put on an OK Computer vinyl. Very cool. For those of you who speak Croatian, the name "Peder's" might raise an eyebrow. For those who don't, "peder" is a derogatory term in several Slavic languages, including Croatian, for homosexual men. You can figure out the English translation on your own. I commented on living in Croatia, and the name of the bar "meaning something very different there," to which the bartender said "oh yeah, we always have people commenting on that, some come in super angry, some just laugh about it." The name just comes from the street the bar sits on, which roughly translates to "Saint Peter's Street," with Peter in Danish being Peder. Apparently the owners are a gay couple as well, for what that's worth. They had free stickers, which I took a couple of, but I don't think I'll be putting on my laptop for as long as I live in Croatia.

After that though, my sickness and fatigue were becoming apparent, so we decided to cancel meeting with our friends that evening, and head back to Malmö early. As we walked to the bus station though, I saw someone carrying Dunkin', which set off something primal in my Massachusetts brain, and immediately opened Google Maps to locate the nearest one. It turns out there was one in the central train station, so we made a detour there before catching our bus back to Malmö. I ordered an "iced regular," but the Danish cashier had no idea what that meant, oh well. Still got my iced regular, just had to actually explain it. We also got a box of half a dozen donuts which we took back with us, some familiar, and some local. My mom still makes fun of me for getting Dunkies and not danishes when I was in Denmark, though. After that, we walked to the bus station, and returned to Malmö, crossing the Öresund once more.