2025-12-21
Florida
https://photos.smugmug.com/2025/Florida---December-2025/i-rfxDv9h/0/KTzZqpNxpx2S9thQFTC99znn5vR9Btb5LKCd8zzbQ/X3/IMG_0130-X3.jpg
Christmas in Florida
December 22nd, 2025 - December 27th, 2025
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2025/Florida---December-2025/n-MT7HLR

So, back in the US. After about a year out of the country, the longest I'd ever been away without visiting, I was back. I was spending most of my break in my home state of Massachusetts, but for the week of Christmas, we flew to Florida. My grandparents have lived down there for twenty odd years, and due to health issues, they're not in any state to travel, so we went down to spend Christmas with them. 20°C (70°F) weather in December is pretty nice, after all. And the whole seeing loved ones thing.

Our flight in was pretty uneventful. At the airport, we couldn't agree on what to eat, so I went off on my own to [Wahlburgers](https://maps.app.goo.gl/U53MacUUudHbmT417) while the family ate elsewhere, which was solid, nothing to write home about, but perfectly acceptable airport food. Flight was about three hours, so we got in late but not too late, landing around 7 PM, and from there we rented our car, and drove to the grandparents'. When we got there, we greeted our grandmother, left our stuff behind, and left basically immediately because we were all hungry again, and their fridge was pretty bare, or at least it didn't have anything that would feed a family of four. We went to [Duffy's Sports Grill](https://maps.app.goo.gl/J4fEYpY1Hf8LD3cw5), which we used to go to all the time when we would visit my grandparents as kids, because they had "kids eat free" Wednesdays. I got a plate of buffalo wings and some slaw, which I absolutely devoured after that flight. They were good. After that, I got a "shamrock pie" for dessert, which was an oreo pie crust with fudge and mint chocolate chip ice cream. And that was also really good. Then we went back to my grandparents', where I immediately passed out.

The next morning, I woke up, made breakfast with my grandmother, and we caught up for a bit. I was still jet lagged, and she's always been an early riser, so it was a while before anyone else came out. When my mother and brother eventually did, we decided to go get donuts. There's a donut shop near my grandparents' that we really like, but when we got there they were out of donuts. At 10 AM on a Tuesday? I didn't realize that was something that could happen. A local was arriving and saw us walk up to the door and walk away, and asked if there were no donuts. When we confirmed that, she recommended another nearby place, and we ended up going there instead. That was [Luke's Dixie Donuts & Fried Chicken](https://maps.app.goo.gl/VZ5ek7ajVSsgbcA46) (this is a post about Florida, in case you forgot.) We got a box of a dozen assorted donuts to share with the six of us, and all the ones I got the opportunity to try were wicked tasty. My dad then went to the grocery store and sufficiently stocked the fridge for the next several days, so we had lunch together. Immediately after lunch, I jumped into the pool. And then I immediately got a cramp because I swam after eating and drowned. The end.

Maybe not. Spent the rest of the day relaxing with family, and played cards with my mom. She taught me "reverse Solitaire," which felt like a tamer version of Nerts, a game my friend's wife had taught me when I lived in Moldova, and we played all the time. I taught her the version of Nerts I was familiar with, and we ended up playing that for the rest of the evening.

The next day was Christmas Eve. My mom was going grocery shopping for Christmas Eve and Christmas dinner, and I decided to tag along. The grocery store's clientele was **very** Floridian, which checks out given where we were. But the amount of mildly amusing or just straight cringy Florida-coded t-shirts I saw was at parody levels. We got basically everything we needed, they didn't have the "Christmas-themed" sprinkles my mom wanted for her cookies, but normal jimmies worked perfectly fine. I was surprised to find that the grocery store even had *Buldak*, a brand of spicy ramen that I really like, so I got a pack.

In the evening, we wanted to do something together as a family. Due to my grandfather's decreased mobility, we specifically sought out a wheelchair-accessible activity. What we ended up finding was the ILUMINA lantern festival at Mounts Botanical Garden in West Palm Beach. So we got six tickets to go to that. That was really cool, we got in shortly before the gloaming, and walked around. About halfway through our loop around the garden, it got dark, and everything looked so much prettier, so we ended up looping back again. The botanical garden was really pretty, and for the festival they had a bunch of Chinese lantern sculptures around the garden, in various shapes: some Christmasy, some more traditionally Chinese, and some more Floridian. The centerpiece was a massive dragon lantern in the middle of the lake, which the website for the event advertises as being 195 feet (60m) long. Everyone really enjoyed it, and we had a great time that evening, and got lots of pretty pictures. I also brought back some other souvenirs on my ankles and arms, courtesy of the local mosquitoes. The downside of having nice weather all year round is there's no cold to kill the mosquitos in the winter.

The next day was Christmas. I got up, and did some Advent of Code exercises while waiting for the rest of the family to be ready. Then, we exchanged gifts, and hung out some more. Later that day, I would start work on the Yorkle bot for a Discord community I was in, which picked clips from random Radiohead songs, and users had to guess them in as few clips as possible. With each wrong guess, the user would get a slightly longer clip, until it reached a 10 second clip with 6 guesses, at which point they would lose the game if they could not guess it. When family members were occupied or resting, I would spend the next two days working on the bot, eventually pushing the first production version of it out on the 27th.

That evening, we would have Christmas dinner as a family. That was primarily done by my father, with some help from my brother. The dinner consisted of a prime rib roast, Yorkshire pudding, asparagus, spinach, and mashed turnips. Everything was excellent, and we had a great time celebrating Christmas together as a family. They cooked with their cooking, fr.

The next day, as if we didn't have enough leftovers from Christmas dinner, we went to lunch at [Leftovers](https://maps.app.goo.gl/15n2TDKwSEWRLEff7), a local seafood restaurant. There, we met with my aunt and her partner, who were visiting Florida for Christmas. Last time I was in Florida, I had frog legs, which were very good, so when I saw "dolphin" on the menu, I thought that I would be having another culinary adventure. But, I was less curious when I was just told it was dolphin fish, a Floridian term for mahi-mahi/lampuga. Oh well. I ended up getting panko fried oysters and a Greek salad, which were excellent, although a little less adventurous. My family mocked me for ordering "oystahs." Whatever. They also had an excellent tres leches, which I had for dessert. Overall, great restaurant, and we had a great time catching up. Then we went home, and had leftovers again for dinner.

The next day would be our last day in Florida. I got up, packed, had some breakfast, and said some goodbyes to my grandparents. Then, we set off for the airport. After returning the rental car and going through security without any issues, we found our flight had been delayed by an hour and a half. Oh well, last time we flew from Florida to Boston we had a six hour delay, so this wasn't too bad. We got some dinner at the airport at [Nick's Tomato Pie](https://maps.app.goo.gl/pCiwcUJQRRJga9xx5), a solid pizza place. It was one of those airport restaurants where you scan the QR code on your table to order and pay, and then the wait staff bring you your food. The waitress bringing us our food was very Italian, which was made even more obvious when she brought me my "pepperoni" pizza with all the flourishes of the accent, as well as my brother's pizza, and then her dull "and Hawaiian" as she dropped my mother's Hawaiian pizza down on the table in front of her with all the contempt that moment deserved. Then we flew back to Boston, got our stuff, and got home a little after midnight.