2026-04-06
Florida
https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-3Gqw3ZQ/1/KpB65gQVwDQxVSprBwwLXXSN84v5GgRmhXLchL5F6/X2/i-3Gqw3ZQ-X2.jpg
44:37
April 3rd, 2026 - April 6th, 2026
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2026/Florida---April-2026/n-WqX947

Cryptic number in the title, ooh, spooky. It's really not that cryptic though, it's the ratio of how long I spent in travel (44 hours and 10 minutes) to the time I actually spent at my destination (36 hours and 45 minutes). Yes, those numbers are accurate, albeit rounded to the nearest 5 minute mark due to how I keep track of my schedule. Why the short trip? Family stuff. Any more is not what I'm here to cover on this blog post, as it's hard to have a good sense of humor about that, and I'm trying to make something that's enjoyable and a little chaotic to read, not beg the open Internet for a pity party. So, I'm going to be writing about the joys of commercialized transit, the joys of being in a red state in the United States of America in April 2026, and other good fun.

So, the trip. I packed the night before, only bringing one small suitcase because of the duration of the trip. Packed a couple days worth of clothes, a swimsuit, and my toothbrush, shaving kit, and hairbrush. The bare essentials. Also threw my laptop and charger in my backpack, in case I had the time to deal with the crushing amount of university work I was being laden with. (I did a little :) ).

So, I scheduled myself a Bolt taxi from my apartment to Zagreb airport to pick me up at 5:30 in the morning to make my 7:40 flight. Zagreb airport is not big, so there are only two choices for restaurants, and I opted for [Spread](https://share.google/jCvCiPTP0QDBMPrrr). Since I'm trying to take better care of my physical health and be more active (which is actually working, I have lost about 8kg (17.6lbs) in the last month, so I feel good about that so far), I opted for the Sweet & Sour Chicken Salad. It was not great. I paid €18.10 ($20.12) for the salad and a small bottle of *Cedevita* (essentially Croatian *Tang*), which okay, I'm in an airport, but that's still a little excessive. The salad was awful. It came in a plastic box, the chicken was dry and tasteless, the sweet and sour sauce packet was tiny and didn't really add much, and it took me an hour just to get through because of how unmotivated I was to eat it. Do not recommend.

After finally finishing what one could describe as my "breakfast," I boarded the flight to my first connection in Frankfurt, which passed uneventfully. I went through passport control to exit the EU there, and made my way to my gate, where passengers to the US were subject to an additional two minute interrogation about my plans, reasons for going to the US, duration of stay, reasons for being in the EU, what I'm carrying with me, et cetera et cetera. Great. Thanks.

I should mention that I had about sixty tablets of Helex (better known by its US brand name, Xanax) in my backpack, so every search or interrogation made me a little more nervous, as alprazolam is a Schedule IV controlled substance in the United States, and I only had the original Croatian language copy of my "*Povijest bolesti*" (Medical history) diagnosing my condition and outlining the treatment plan in my bag, with no prescription information on the individual boxes of pills other than "*Lijek se izdaje na recept*" (This medication is to be issued by prescription) printed on the side of the box. So that wasn't going to be fun to explain if I ever had to. My policy was I would never independently mention them, but if I was directly asked about medication or pills, I would be honest. But they only asked if I was travelling with any alcohol or tobacco, which I was not, so crisis averted, for now.

Once I got through the interrogation, I decided to stop at [Hermann's](https://maps.app.goo.gl/Nf4ydCUtKEhAeXfB6) and get myself a frankfurter, being in Frankfurt. Unlike the shitty salad I had in Zagreb, and basically everything around it, the price was actually reasonable for an airport, paying €7.90 ($8.78) for a double Frankfurter (they put two sausages in one hot dog bun). They also had a wide array of complimentary toppings, of which I chose minced pickles, crispy onion bits, and sriracha sauce. I'm sure that's very traditional. I took a picture of it, sent it to a few friends of mine with some caption along the lines of "GUTEN MORGEN AUS FRANKFURT 🌭", and went on my way.

We soon boarded for my second connection to Newark, New Jersey, which I was sat in the aisle of the middle row in the very back in the plane, right by the toilets. Great. At least it's an aisle seat. The two middle seats in my row were unoccupied for most of the boarding process, so I was thinking I lucked out, until an announcement came on the PA "We have two unaccompanied minors at the gate," who were given the two empty seats right next to me. Two American kids, one probably 15-16 and the other maybe 8-10, flying on their own back from Frankfurt. No idea what their situation was, and I wasn't much for chatting them up, but at least it wasn't a screaming baby on an eight and a half hour flight, although their presence did make me a little more self-conscious about what I was watching on the IFE. The flight attendants were super nice to them, bringing them their choice of a meal before anyone else, bringing them extra waters and stuff throughout the flight, and constantly checking up on them, which I thought was really nice. But when it was meal time and they got their meals about 20 minutes before I did, I was a little jealous, to say the least. They had Apple TV on the IFE, which was nice, since I was able to finish *Pluribus*. I had watched the first four episodes when I was in the US over winter break, but since it's not available in Croatia and they're smart enough that I can't get around it with a VPN, I wasn't able to finish it. *Pluribus* is awesome though, definitely recommend watching it if you can find a way. (Or have a less strict ethical code than I when it comes to artists' rights and compensation.) After finishing *Pluribus*, I watched my favorite queer piece of Navy propaganda, *Top Gun*. Every time I watch this I appreciate a little more how much of an absolute douchebag Maverick is. However, Goose slander will not be tolerated.

Then, sorry to be the bearer of bad news, I know I said I'd skip the emotionally heavy parts of the trip in this post, I landed in Newark. God help us all, I'm in New Jersey. *All this from a slice of gabagool?* Because of how Newark airport is structured, the terminals aren't interconnected in a traditional way. I had to completely check out of the airport, take the "Skytrain" to the next terminal, get on a shuttle bus from the Terminal A Skytrain stop for the terminal to the actual terminal, and then check in and go through security again, same as if that was my origin airport. Great. Additionally, for those who aren't keeping up with every shot of bleach that is reading US news, ICE was currently deployed to several airports across the US to "assist" the TSA, because Republicans wouldn't agree to fund essential national security apparatuses without also including funding greater than the military budget of most countries for their Sturmabteilung. God bless America. Newark was one of the airports getting ICE assistance, which amounted to a ICE agent in full combat gear (I can not exaggerate how kitted out this man was, I've seen Ukrainian soldiers with less gear on than him), sitting on his phone at an unused check-in counter, making more money than the TSA agents right next to him busting their asses with the massive line of people trying to check in and go through security. God bless America. The wait wasn't that bad, and I got through security in about twenty minutes.

While there, I also got myself a Boston Kreme at [Dunkies](https://maps.app.goo.gl/Fy4LfTPibZb4KHLZ7), which made the Masshole in me a bit happier. After sending a video gloating about how good it was to a friend who was shitting on Dunkin' and the idea of a Boston Kreme and saying how the only real donut was a "*krafna*" (Croatian apricot jelly donut) a couple days before I left, I moved on to my gate. And to praise Dunkies a bit more, even at an American airport, where everything costs ungodly amounts of money, it was only $2.59 (€2.33). And it was good, if I didn't mention that already.

After going through security, I also stopped in the book store, [Ink](https://maps.app.goo.gl/huaCxkfsKPDtPQSj9), at the airport, which surprisingly had a very good selection of vinyls, which of course I spent some time looking through. (I immediately found *OK Computer* and *KID A MNESIA*, of course.) I didn't end up buying any vinyls, but I did get a copy of *Sunrise on the Reaping* there, which is the newest spinoff on the *Hunger Games* series, which I reread along with the first spinoff, *The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes*, about a year ago. Something something relevant themes blah blah blah. I liked *Songbirds*, but I haven't gotten around to reading more than the first chapter of *Sunrise* yet. Other things on my mind, or whatever. I still had another two hours before I had to board, and that's when the weight of everything I was carrying, the grief and sadness that was the reason of the trip in the first place, the stress and exhaustion from already having been traveling for fourteen hours, significant emotional strain from some unresolved interpersonal turmoil back home (which has since been resolved), and everything else I'd been carrying just kinda caved in all at once.

> "*Strobe lights and blown speakers*

> *Fireworks and hurricanes*

> *I'm not here, this isn't happening*

> *I'm not here, I'm not here*"

*If I had a nickel for every time I had an emotional crisis in Newark airport, I'd have three nickels. Which isn't a lot, but it's weird that it happened thrice.*

And I've only flown through Newark four times.

Too heavy, sorry. Anyways, final flight next. Went uneventfully, just kinda had my headphones on the full flight and was disassociating hard. Then, I landed at Palm Beach International (which, as of July 1st, will be officially renamed to Donald J. Trump International Airport. Eugh.) With no baggage to claim (just had a carry-on suitcase and my backpack), and having already cleared passport control in Newark, I breezed through the airport, and we actually landed forty five minutes ahead of schedule. Which is really nice, but it also means my father was still on the way to the airport, so I had to wait for him in the drop-off/pickup lane for a bit. He still arrived fifteen minutes before my flight was supposed to land, so by the time we had taxiied, disembarked, and I got out of the airport and to the drop-off/pickup lane, I only had to wait about fifteen minutes. So not terrible.

We drove to my grandparents' house, I spent about forty minutes or so having a quick bite to eat and catching up with everyone, and then hit the hay. My little cousins from Virginia were also there, who I haven't seen since 2018, but they were leaving early the next morning to fly back home. But it was nice being able to catch up with them. More so with my aunt and uncle, that is, since my cousins definitely didn't remember me very well, being a toddler and an infant the last time they saw me. Oh well, despite loving living in Croatia and definitely not wanting to live in the USA right now, there are cons to living six timezones away from most of my family.

Due to this neat little thing our bodies do called jet lag, I only ended up getting about four and a half hours of sleep, before waking up at around 4 AM (which my internal clock still treats as 10 AM). After about half an hour of trying to get back to sleep, I gave up, put on my headphones on full volume, and went to go sit by the pool. Although I soon learned that if you sit in pitch dark in a state that's mostly refurbished swampland for two hours, some things might try to take a bite out of you. So now I have mosquito bites all over my feet and legs. Lovely. After a bit others in the house started to stir, as my cousins had to leave for the airport at 6 AM, so I went in to hang out with them and say my goodbyes. After that, it was light out, so I decided to go for a walk.

It's a really nice neighborhood, very quiet, and has a natural kind of loop just in the way its laid out, which was about three kilometers (3.29km, if you care about numbers, yes I logged it on Strava. For my fellow Yanks, that's 2.04 miles.). As a Masshole transplant in Zagreb, being in the South and everyone out and about stopping to say "good morning, how are you" threw me off a bit. There was a bit of a funny moment where I was at the emotional climax of *There, There* (amazing song by the way, go listen if you haven't, really was hitting me), and some older gentleman waved me down and said something to me. I took off my headphones and tilted my head raised an eyebrow.

"Huh?"

"I said 'good morning!' 😀"

Similar situations happened a couple more times throughout the walk. I just nodded, smiled, and waved. Hey, I was assimilating! I added a smile and wave to my nod. Additionally, being Florida, the weather is completely unpredictable, so despite it being bright and sunny at the start of my walk, about twenty minutes in, it was raining **HARD**. And by the time I got back to the house completely drenched ten minutes later, it had completely stopped. Thanks, Florida. But honestly, the timing of the rain fit in good with my playlist, so I'm not really complaining. But not trusting the shower the State of Florida offered me to thoroughly cleanse me, I decided to take another when I got back to the house.

After hanging out for a couple hours, I just had to get out of the house. So, finally being on the same timezone as my best friend again, I gave him a call, and we talked about everything for a few hours. I decided to walk around the neighborhood again for a few hours, and this time I clocked 8.52 km (5.29 mi). So I definitely got my steps in for the day. While walking though, I wasn't really paying attention to where I was stepping, and was one step away from stepping on a coral snake before I noticed it. They're generally not very aggressive, but being one of the most venomous snakes in North America, they're definitely not something you want to step on. With everything on my mind, I just kinda laughed it off, with the gravity of how incredibly dangerous that could have been only setting in several hours later. Oh well, I survived. But Florida definitely has a lot more interesting wildlife than Boston or Zagreb, I'll say that. In addition to the coral snake, I saw all sorts of other birds and reptiles that we definitely don't get up here. And lots of mosquitos, too. Yay. You're not supposed to be out this early in the year. But I already learned that lesson when I got eaten alive in the botanical gardens back in December.

After that and some time back at the house with my family, my father and I decided to go to the grocery store to pick up some stuff. I loaded up on a few snacks and hot sauces to bring back to Zagreb, and then for some reason I was craving a milkshake, so we went to an ice cream place just by the grocery store, [Sunshine Ice Cream](https://maps.app.goo.gl/WjxgTdKChYsNCLEu8), which was a wicked cool spot. They had the widest assortment of things other than ice cream, from snacks and beers to jewelry and antiques. Cool. I got my milkshake (you can see it in the gallery, this was a **MEDIUM**! Five years over here and I've gotten un-used to American portion sizes...) as well as a bag of Takis for a friend who is curently obsessed with all things Hispanic (her words, not mine), and is a Croatian who actually enjoys spicy food. The milkshake was really good, actual homemade chocolate ice cream in it, not just some syrup.

Spent the rest of the day with my family, we had Easter dinner on Saturday since neither of my grandparents are exactly big eaters right now, and my dad figured better to have it when someone who could actually enjoy it was there. After dinner, due to my jet lag, I went to bed around 8:30. But due to our little friend called jet lag, I woke up at about half past midnight. Easter morning. He is risen, indeed. Great! Determined to get back to sleep, I didn't touch my phone, and just laid there. Didn't work. After a bit, I put on my "sleepy playlist" and nope, still didn't work! So I just laid there in bed, not even touching my phone, just lying there mentally spiralling over all the thoughts banging around my head until around 6 AM. Great experience, five stars, would definitely recommend! Eventually I got up and went for another walk. This time I ended up walking 5.79 km (3.6 miles), and didn't have any near misses with any deadly widelife. That's a win in my book! In case you haven't realized, I walk around a lot when I'm nervous or overwhelmed.

I didn't get rained on that time, so I walked back to the house, got myself some breakfast, took a shower, spent a bit more time with my family, and got packed. My next flight was at noon, so we left for the airport around 10. I said my goodbyes, and then we set off. PBI is a relatively small airport and is never very crowded, but there was a massive line at security due to staffing shortages. There was an announcement repeating every minute that the extended wait times were because of the "Democrat shutdown of the DHS." Thanks, Florida. After eventually making it through security after about half an hour, I spent fifteen minutes looking around the gift shop for anything that caught my eye, and then called a friend. Despite the shitty connection and learning that the headphones I was using have a very high gain microphone, we had a great talk, and stayed on the phone until I needed to board.

The flight from PBI to Toronto was fairly uneventful, but then I had a long layover in Toronto. I was not really having a good time, for similar reasons as to Newark, so I was pacing around the terminal quite a bit. And there, I had a scheduled five hour layover, which ended up being closer to seven due to delays. And my next connection in Zürich was only two hours, so I was very optimistic about my chances of making that next flight! They had a Tim Horton's though in the terminal, and Tim Horton's also had a "Crème Boston" donut, so I decided to try it. If I said it was better than Dunkies, I would be tarred and feathered next time I set foot in Boston, so I'm not going to say that. I also decided to pick up some maple syrup in the duty free, because when in Canada... The friend who I called when I was in PBI has a Canadian boyfriend, so I decided to ask her for his advice on good maple syrup. (See, normally I'd go for the one that says Vermont on it and comes out of a metal tin, but that doesn't really apply here.) After getting his advice and sending a picture of a potential option and getting a whole-hearted "YES" in response, I picked up two bottles. 

Eventually, I actually was able to board my flight to Zürich, and someone was looking out for me, because I had a whole row to myself.  (That someone was my dad. He bought the tickets and picked the seats.) After waiting for boarding to complete and just to confirm my fortune was as good as I thought it was, I did some journalling and then fell asleep for most of the flight, waking up only when the flight attendants brought me something to eat. I didn't even touch the IFE on a trans-Atlantic flight, which I think is a first. However, like how my life normally goes, after any amount of relaxation I'm afforded, great stress follows. We were able to make up some time from the delay in the air, so I hadn't completely missed my connection to Zagreb, but I had 45 minutes from wheels down until my flight, and I had to get on a train to another terminal and go through passport control to re-enter the EU. (Switzerland is not part of the EU, but is still part of the Schengen Area, so they still handle passport control for EU entry.) After sprinting through two terminals and skipping through every line with "sorry my flight is in 35... 25... 20 minutes, can I pass you?" I eventually made it to my gate, albeit very sweaty. Sorry to the guy sitting next to me on the flight.

The flight back to Zagreb from Zürich was fairly short, only about an hour, and it passed fairly uneventfully. However, I embarrassed myself even further when the stewardesses brought out water, and I realized "hey, I should take my medication with this water." But, being very cramped, I had to put the tray table up, reach down beneath the seat for my backpack to get my morning medications while holding my cup of water between my thighs, and as I was dropped the tray table back down, it hit the cup and spilled about 90% of its contents into my lap. Lovely. At least I was wearing black jeans, so it didn't look like I pissed myself. I splashed the guy sitting next to me a bit too, so sorry again to that guy.

After landing in Zagreb, I had to wait at the baggage claim. Despite only bringing a small carry-on sized bag, since I was bringing hot sauce back from Florida, I checked the bag for the flight back. However, the bag never came. I went to the lost & found desk at the baggage claim, and there was another lady there, who also had flown from Toronto - Zürich - Zagreb, and her bag also wasn't there. So I guess with the delay, our bags didn't make it in time. Oh well. But they delivered the bag to me the next morning, so all was good. (Although the airport delivery service did call me while I was in the shower.)

"We have your bag, are you home?"

"Yeah, can you bring it to the sixteenth floor?"

"No, we don't do delivery to the floor, you'll have to come down."

"Sorry, I'm just getting out of the shower (I was very much not, I had just got in.) Can you wait a bit?"

"Sure, we'll come in fifteen minutes."

So I had to quickly get dressed, run down, grab my bag, and finish my shower. But yeah. Great couple of days. And we had huge project deadlines Tuesday and Wednesday, which I wasn't really able to contribute to at all while being in Florida. So the next couple days were extra fun.