2025-01-10
https://photos.smugmug.com/2025/Lviv---January-2025/i-TZRKcVw/0/KFzxMbJMcL68szTqL3HssdvPgkHSX6Q7Hk2wRxKP8/X2/IMG_5856-X2.jpg
The Snowy City of Lions
January 2nd, 2025 - January 10th, 2025
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2025/Lviv---January-2025/n-4Z7MPs

Oh, I love Lviv. For those who don't know, I spent about three months here over the summer of 2023 doing volunteer work, and I've kept in touch with the friends and connections I made then. That group was organizing a Christmas Weekend this January,* and since I had the time off, I decided to visit. After a relatively easy bus ride from Poland (crossing the Polish-Ukrainian border is always hit or miss, I've had to wait over 11 hours before), I arrived in Lviv, and checked into my hostel. Ukrainians are some of the most hospitable people I've met, especially nowadays, due to the lack of foreign visitors. I unpacked my stuff, settled in a bit, and then walked from my hostel to the city center to meet a friend for dinner.

I met my friend at [Pravda Beer Theatre](https://maps.app.goo.gl/n4WEknGZFSk2yTjs6), a local Lvivan craft beer pub, had some dinner and drinks there, caught up, walked around the center a bit, and then stopped into another craft pub, [Drunken Duck](https://maps.app.goo.gl/K5QoiZREpivbrwBU8). Lviv has a very vibrant craft beer scene, and unlike many craft breweries, Lviv's are incredibly affordable. A nice craft New England IPA might run you €5-€10 in Croatia, even more in other parts of the EU, but in Lviv, it was more like €1-€3. Even some of the more decadent stouts, which might demand €20-€40 back home, were available for €8-€15. Ukraine actually has some of the cheapest beer in the world (second to Vietnam) on average, with macro-brewery lagers available for €0.50 or less. And for the most part, it's pretty good! Lviv actually tried to implement prohibition in early 2022 with the onset of the Russian invasion, but that didn't last very long. After thoroughly sampling the local craft scene, I was still able to walk my way back to my hostel.

The next morning, the "Christmas Weekend" officially started. I got up, got ready, and was on time to be there early, when I encountered a slight hiccup. No matter what I did, the door to the hostel would not open! I called management, and after attempting to open the lock from the outside and failing, and communicating in a broken mix of English and Ukrainian, the manager ended up climbing through my window and opening it from the inside instantly. I don't know what she did differently than I, or if we just managed to get it loose enough with all our efforts, but needless to say I was a bit embarassed with how easy she got it open once she climbed through the snow-covered windowsill to get inside.

So, instead of being twenty minutes early, I was dead on time. At least I wasn't late. We had some Christmas activities, a short sermon, some discussion groups for us to get to know each other, and after that was lunch. They set up a whole sushi making station, with a massive bucket of rice that they cooked, seaweed, raw fish (I can't remember if it was tuna or salmon), mayonnaise, and sushi rollers. I was quite impressed, and made myself quite a few rolls (and even with all of us, there were still plenty of leftovers!) After that, I went to go relax at my hostel for a bit, and while I was relaxing, an air alert came on. The monitors reported an object launched from Russia directly at Lviv moving at 7,000 km/h. Naturally, I went to shelter, and while waiting for the alert to clear, I drank an IPA appropriately titled "Bomb Shelter." The alert turned out to be a dud, nothing was actually launched. Phew.

The next day, I got up, realized that with all my traveling, I had run out of clean laundry, so I went to a friend's nearby apartment in order to start a load. Hung out with some friends for a bit, walked back to the hostel to hang my laundry (with no drying rack, I was using the towel rack, chairs, doors, and the edges of tables to dry my clothes!), and then immediately went back out to hang out with my friends some more. They were organizing a party, where they hosted various different games (I wasn't much use to my team, not being quick enough in Ukrainian for trivia, or funny enough in Ukrainian for skits, but I still had a good time), and everyone was invited to dress up as their favorite cartoon character. Not knowing about this until the day of, and not having packed for a costume party, I threw on a green jumper and said I was shaggy. I was in desparate need of a haircut at that time, so it worked out okay.

The next day was Sunday, so they had a Christmas worship service which I attended in the morning, and after that we went to get lunch. We went to [5-Te Pidzemellya](https://maps.app.goo.gl/ijL6FN1PUHcRYUWp9), or "The Fifth Dungeon," which is a medieval themed restaurant underground in the center of Lviv. I'd been there a couple times before, the first time was during an air raid alert that came when we were going to get dinner, and my friend told me "well, we'll take you to the best shelter." The restaurant has a really cool vibe, the wait staff has medieval attire, the food and drinks are served in clay mugs and bowls, and you really feel like you've gone back in time (except for the QR code menus and free Wi-Fi 🙃). They also had a "sword in a stone" which you could pull out. I think it's supposed to have a little device that an operator can retract, to determine who can actually pull the sword out, but it seems it wasn't engaged, so anyone could. The sword was huge, almost two meters long, and was surprisingly heavy. I have a video of me pulling it out and losing my balance a bit when I get it high enough because of its heft! After that, I did some shopping at a local clothing brand, [Aviatsiya Halychyny](https://maps.app.goo.gl/6Wwa3J9v6fDdPUXJ8), (Galicia Aviation) which sells clothing and other accessories with patriotic and military designs and slogans. They had moved into a bigger space since the last time I had visited, and had some pretty cool stuff in there too, including the remains of the fusilage of a shot down Russian Su-27 fighter jet.

The next day, Monday, everyone was back at work again, so I spent most of the day just chilling at my hostel. I ordered in food, and when I stepped outside to receive it, I had a bit of an interesting experience. As I was standing outside of the door of the hostel waiting for the courier, two members of TCK (Ukraine's conscription agency) stopped me, and demanded my documents. I had heard a lot about these guys, they're not exactly popular, as they basically take people off the street and forcibly conscript them if they don't have documents exempting them. As soon as I showed them my American passport, their tone completely changed, and they were all friendly with me, asking where I was from, talking about the Celtics, etc., as if they weren't about to put me in the back of a van and send me to Donetsk. After that, my courier arrived with my food, he showed them whatever documents he needed to, and they left.

That evening, I was told an American couple was coming to Lviv from Chicago. I assumed they were just some older couple from church leadership or something, there to coordinate some sort of cooperation or charity efforts, so when I was asked if I wanted to spend some time with them, I agreed, not having any other plans. Turns out they were only three years older than me, and just decided to pop into Lviv for a day while they were visiting Budapest. Cool day trip. We walked around, bought some second-hand clothes, went back to [Pravda Beer Theatre](https://maps.app.goo.gl/n4WEknGZFSk2yTjs6), had some drinks there and met up with another friend of mine who was working in the area. They were wicked tired though, so we left after that so they could get some sleep.

The next morning, we met for breakfast at [Lviv Croissants](https://maps.app.goo.gl/FeKR1y8zCWJT5ges5), a Ukrainian breakfast chain that has recently gone international, including locations in the US. I guess it's their Dunkies. We met with a friend of mine from Lviv, and the cousin of one of the Chicagoans' friends back home. Immediately after finishing our breakfast, they wanted to go to McDonald's, so we went there, and then the friend's cousin drove us around Lviv a bit, and showed us the site of a recent Russian missile strike, where a missile had hit an apartment building and killed an entire family of five, except for the father, as well as four other inhabitants of the building. That's a story which had particularly stuck with me, and seeing the place where it happened was incredibly emotional. Even writing about it is. After that, we took the Chicagoans to the train station, and bid them farewell back to Budapest. I've gotta say, I have a lot of respect for those two, just taking a day out of their week's vacation to go see people in Ukraine. After that my friend and I went back to my hostel to hang out, where we caught up and watched some Squid Game together.

The next day, another friend invited me over early in the morning before he started work to go on a walk with him. What I didn't realize is it was a ninety minute power walk, so I really got my workout for the day. After going back to his place and taking a shower, I had breakfast with him and his wife, tagged along with them for some grocery shopping, and went back to my hostel to crash. In the evening, I went to visit two friends of mine at their apartment, who had been sick earlier in the week so I hadn't had the chance to see them yet. They wanted to see *The Lord of the Rings,* but it wasn't available on any of the streaming services they had with Ukrainian dubbing, only subtitles, and that was a dealbreaker for them. Ukrainians really love dubs, I don't know why. We'll be watching a movie that was recorded in English, they'll put on a Ukrainian dub, and then throw on English subtitles for me. Thanks guys. In other countries I've been to, including Croatia, where I live, it's almost entirely subtitles, except for some children's movies. After over an hour of trying to get pirating sites that offered Ukrainian dubs working on their smart TV, they gave up, and I went home. Other than that though, we had a good time catching up. We had a fun little mix up, where they asked me if I was hungry (holodnyy), which is very close to the word for cold (kholodnyy/kholodno), so I replied "oh I'm from Boston this is nothing I'm never cold" except I actually said "I'm never hungry." Languages are fun. They mocked me pretty good for that one.

The next day, I took a day to rest since all my friends were busy, and I was still in a sleep deficit. The day after that was my last day in Lviv, so I packed up, left the hostel, went to get breakfast at [Lviv Croissants](https://maps.app.goo.gl/zvkeUQ4sDrk5xPF46), and hung out with a couple friends until it was time for my train to leave. I decided since it was a ten and a half our train ride, I'd splurge a bit for the "Lux" cabin, which I ended up sharing with a teenage boy, who saw me playing Terraria on my Switch and tried to nerd out with me about the game in Russian, which I don't really speak, especially not useful words for Terraria. But we showed each other our worlds before we turned in for the night, so that was cool. Onwards to Odesa.

This was a long post. If you can't tell, I really like Lviv.

\* *For Ukrainians, Christmas is traditionally celebrated in early January, although since Russia's invasion the state holiday has been moved to December 25th, as part of efforts to de-Russify and Westernize the country's culture.*