2025-08-24
Malmö
https://photos.smugmug.com/2025/Malm----August-2025/i-zSDPGn4/0/K3nWXGKfpDDHjRqxJgtCh8DzPxq7sNHZ97FLkKsGs/X2/IMG_2267-X2.jpg
Swedish Fishes/Arpeggi
August 22nd, 2025 - August 24th, 2025
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2025/Malm----August-2025/n-r8hsFD

Malmö, Sweden. I grew up American, not really German-American, Irish-American, Swedish-American, or anything else that I would identify myself as. But, if we had ties to any one country other than the United States, that would be Sweden. My mother's grandfather was Swedish, and even though none of us really spoke it, we still kept some of the old recipes, had Swedish prayers on the wall, had plenty of Dala horses around the house, and kept in contact with our Swedish relatives, who had actually come to visit us in Boston (although we had never visited them in Sweden, I was the first in my family to do so.) However, we weren't visiting them directly, I was traveling with my buddy, and we were looking for cheap places to fly with Ryanair, and we found Malmö. My extended family is mostly in Mariestad and Göteborg. I reached out to them, and they were planning to come meet us in Malmö for a day, but something came up and they weren't able to meet us after all. Oh well, guess I'll have to visit a bit further north next time.

So, we flew to Malmö. Since Copenhagen is right across the Öresund from Malmö, we spent our first day there, which I wrote about in another post, "Sick Day in Copenhagen." As one might imply by that title, I ended up being pretty sick for my visit. After we came back early from Copenhagen, we went to our AirBnB and hung out there for a few hours. After that, we got hungry, so we went to dinner. We ended up going to [Syltan Kök & Bar](https://maps.app.goo.gl/r3jv5HFeAG8SuBBh8). That was really good, we both ended up getting Swedish meatballs, which have always been a personal favorite of mine, growing up with my mom making them. They also had a lot of really interesting crafting beers, which was nice. However, there were a lot of older people there, and I was feeling pretty sick, so the whole time I was there, I was spiraling myself into an anxiety attack wondering if what I had was something like COVID, and if I could be dangerous to them. We ended up sitting pretty far from anyone else and I ended up talking as little as possible while making an effort to breathe down into my plate. So I was a bit distracted, but it was a really nice spot.

The next morning, due to me spiraling myself into an anxiety attack the last night about my symptoms, my buddy went to the pharmacy to get me a COVID test. He also got burek while he was out, which I didn't know you could get in Sweden. Apparently Malmö has a very large Bosnian diaspora, to the point where they sell burek in grocery store bakery sections. Nice. He also got us each a pint of Ben & Jerry's. Legend. I still wasn't feeling great, but was feeling better than the day before, so after the negative result, I felt a little relief. And although I didn't have a fever, we still decided to lay low that day. Which is a shame, since we didn't really end up getting to see much of Malmö because of that. We hung out at the AirBnB for most of the day, watching *Brooklyn 99*. Eventually, around dinner time, I was feeling up for going out, so we went to dinner. We walked around the city a bit, which was really pretty, and ended up going to [The Bishops Arms](https://maps.app.goo.gl/nMs9cam4YMZCqPR46). That was an English style pub, which was a little pricy, but really nice, and had a great atmosphere. I got the bangers & mash, which were pretty good. They also had a very impressive craft beer selection. I wanted to get one bottle to take home, but the waiter informed us that Swedish law restricted the sale of alcohol to a chain of state-owned packies. Interesting. But it was Saturday night, so they were already closed, and they were closed Sundays. Oh well. The beer was still really good, even though I didn't end up bringing it back to Zagreb to share with anyone. More for me, I guess.

We then explored the city a bit more, bought some souvenirs, and then went back to our AirBnB for the night. The next day, we went to the grocery store for some more breakfast burek, and then went back to our AirBnB to pack. After packing and hanging out at the AirBnB for a bit, we checked out and left for lunch. That was at [Casual](https://maps.app.goo.gl/hVMHofr7zmc9ohqU7), a cool little diner. I ended up getting their fish and chips, about which we made plenty of "Swedish Fish" jokes. Also a really nice spot, really enjoyed it. Good beer selection too. After that, we walked all the way to the bus station, enjoying the beauty of the city center. It was Ukrainian Independence Day, and on the main square, there was a rally for the support of Ukraine. Good for them, slava Ukrajini! Then we went to the bus station, took our bus to the airport, and flew back to Zagreb. I really feel like I didn't do much in Malmö because of my sickness, but it was still a really nice city. Wicked expensive, but definitely want to visit Sweden again. Hopefully in better health.