2026-01-09
Massachusetts
https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-TFNx8mM/0/NbktpskZFvMCCCKKBRrZkzdFgHcWvdS28Lwv2T982/X3/i-TFNx8mM-X3.jpg
Shipping Back up to Boston
December 17th, 2025 - January 9th, 2026
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2026/Massachusetts---New-Year-s-2026/n-TwR4g8

This has been the longest stretch I've been away from "home." I guess I'd call Zagreb home at this point, but Massachusetts was home for the first nineteen years of my life, so it gets the title too. From home to home. In the previous years, I'd gone back two or three times a year. This last year, I left Boston on December 28th, 2024, to spend New Year's in Warsaw, and didn't come back until December 17th, 2025. So, almost a whole year, give or take a week and a half. Needless to say, I was excited to be heading back. I was a little nervous, as I didn't know how different things would be, as I hadn't yet been to the States during Trump's second term, and from what I was hearing on the news constantly, things didn't sound great. But honestly, as a white dude from Boston, other than an absolutely crazy news cycle, and the general state of the economy meaning my Euro debit card was worth a lot more, nothing actually ended up being noticeably different.

My flight back to Boston was pretty uneventful. Took a taxi to the airport at about 6:30 AM, ended up telling the taxi to turn around after two minutes because I realized I should probably crack my windows and turn off my heat, and got through Zagreb airport without issues. I had a two hour layover in Istanbul, which ended up being extended to a three hour one due to a delay. Flew to Boston, and on the flight I watched *Captain America: Brave New World*, *The Godfather*, a live recording of a Pixies concert, and a clean version of *Good Will Hunting*, for which I found the Turkish Airlines family friendly dub over half the words in the film very amusing. After arriving in Boston, I got through passport control without any issues, was immediately greeted by my bag as it came onto the baggage claim at the exact same moment I walked up to it, and left the airport to go to the dropoff/pickup lane to meet my father. Turned out he had parked, and had been waiting for me by the exit to the baggage claim, but we missed each other somehow. Oh well. We drove back to my parents' house, I had a bite to eat and hung out with my parents for an hour and a half, and then went to sleep.

The next day was uneventful. I woke up wicked early (around 3 AM) due to my jet lag (that would be 9 AM in Croatia), and mostly lounged around the house that day. My brother was due to come home from college that day, but he had the flu, so he decided to give it a day to let his symptoms abate. He would have waited until the weekend, but it turns out his school's dining halls closed for the winter break sooner, so he decided to risk it, and self-isolate in his room for a few days. Just in case, my dad and I went to CVS that day to get our flu shots. They also gave me a COVID booster with it, for whatever that's worth. Afterwards, I decided to look into getting a new US SIM card. I was applying for a lot of US jobs for summer internships, and none of them were really interested in calling a Croatian number, and my original US number charged $10 a day just to have active while abroad, even if I didn't use any data, make or take any calls, or send or receive calls, so that wasn't really an option. T-Mobile seemed to have a pretty good international plan, which would allow me to receive calls internationally without paying for any roaming data, so I contacted a salesperson about that. I found out it was as described, but would cost $90 a month. When I told the salesperson that I wasn't ready to commit to anything today and was just reviewing my options, they really didn't like that, and were completely baffled by the concept of reviewing all my options before I come to a $90/month decision. I ended up just getting a Google Voice number.

The next day, with my new Google Voice number set up, I applied for a bunch of jobs. For some of them, I ended up spending two hours playing these stupid "optimize production in this factory" and "build a robot to cross the obstacle games." Okay, I get wanting to test for problem solving skills, but two hours of content that has nothing to do with the job I'm applying for?? And they ended up rejecting me anyways. Oh well. I then went to hang out with my buddy, we hung out at his house for a while, his parents made steaks, and then we went to get frozen yogurt at [Menchie's](https://maps.app.goo.gl/CDabxoLKsfqkqUUa7). I don't think my brain had fully comprehended I was back in the US yet, because as soon as we walked in, there were a bunch of teenagers in there, and hearing them all talking and being loud, as teenagers do, I thought to my self "wow, this place is full of Americans!" Crazy that. We listened to *In Rainbows: From the Basement* in the car, and I think I enjoyed it a lot more than my buddy did, who said "he needs to listen to albums over several times before he can come to an opinion." Very polite.

The next day I ended up spending with my buddy and his new girlfriend (and by new, they had been dating for almost a year, but she wasn't there last time I was in town). We did some Christmas shopping, well, more accurately they did, grabbed lunch at [Friendly's](https://maps.app.goo.gl/TQgfDHvwnys6xNb69), which was pretty good, always love their ice cream, and the buffalo chicken tenders and slaw I got were solid too. After that, we did some more shopping, then went to hang out at his place. He made us dinner, and we watched the first few episodes of *Fallout* on Prime Video. I had already seen season 1, and the first episode of season 2 had just come out, but my buddy hadn't seen any yet, so we ended up starting season 1 together. He would then go to watch the rest of season 1 on his own, so we could watch season 2 for the first time together. It's a solid show, definitely keeps some of Fallout's humor and is faithful to the style of the games, but definitely does some weird things with the plots and factions of the games. But if you turn off your nerd brain and just watch the show, it's pretty good.

The next day, we went to a Christmas service, where I connected with some old buddies, and after that we went to get lunch. We went to the [Horse Shoe Pub](https://maps.app.goo.gl/krAzLK5MtyiYzneV7), which was really good, we got an appetizer of poutine, and I ended up ordering the Guinness Pot Pie, which was excellent. After that, one of my buddies had to be home for a meeting, so we dropped him off, then the remaining two of us drove around a bit more, and ended up driving to Arlington to take some pictures of the city (one of which I used as the thumbnail for this post!) Whenever we're driving into town, I always love that view, so I wanted to find somewhere good to capture it, and I think I did pretty well. Even though I brought my camera back to Massachusetts though, I didn't bring it that day, so I ended up taking the pictures with my iPhone. And I also didn't realize I'd be getting a new phone later that day, both of which would have made for a better picture. The next day, we would fly to Florida to spend Christmas with my grandparents, so that evening we had a "Christmas: Part 1" with my family. We decorated the tree, and exchanged any gifts that were too big or fragile to take to Florida. Like I mentioned a couple sentences ago, my father got me a new phone, which was desperately needed, since my 13 Pro Max had suffered a pretty good drop, and was constantly facing heat issues. My aunt also got me Pixies' *Doolittle* on vinyl, a *Hail to the Thief* poster, and a *Doolittle* tee. She gets me.
a
We then flew off to Florida to spend the next week with my grandparents. But this is a Massachusetts post, so that'll get its own post.

After returning to Massachusetts, we went to church together again the next morning, after which I went to Wendy's with a few old buddies (different ones from last week), and spent time catching up with them. Back when I was a teenager, the youth ministry guys would go out to Wendy's every week after Sunday service, so that brought back some memories. We spent the rest of the day hanging out at home, ordered Chinese for dinner, and watched the new *Knives Out* movie, *Wake Up Dead Man*, which we really enjoyed.

The next couple days we just spent time running errands and spending time together as a family, which was pretty nice. We played some more games as a family, including *Chronology* and *Ransom Notes*, both of which we had a blast playing, especially *Chronology* for me, because I crush at that game. A web developer whose strongest subjects in high school were History and Foreign Language (Latin for two years, French for one), that's a new one.

For New Year's Eve lunch, we went out to a family favorite spot of ours, [O'Connor's](https://maps.app.goo.gl/1oBdYJiDQdHjdhC77), an Irish restaurant & pub in Worcester. We got an appetizer of the shillelagh sticks, which were corned beef wrapped in puff pastry, vaguely reminescent of burek. After a tablewide debate on how shillelagh was pronounced, when the waitress came my father just asked for an order of the corned beef sticks. I commented with "ohh, he was too nervous to ask for the shillelagh sticks!" I was actually wrong in the pronunciation of the word shillelagh, I thought it was shi-LAY-luh, but the word is actually pronounced shi-LAY-lee. But by the time the waitress came around, we had figured that out, and my comment was made with the correct pronunciation, which the waitress commended me on. Hell yeah. They were really good, and as my entrée I got the bangers & mash, which was also excellent. I don't think I've ever been disappointed by O'Connor's.

We then went home for New Year's Eve, and one of my buddies came over to join us, and ended up spending the night. We had a good time, played some games, and celebrated the new year. They were all watching the Times Square Ball Drop on TV, but I don't mess with that New York stuff, so I was in the next room over (well, really the same room, as the living room and the kitchen are only separated by the fact that the living room has a carpet), timing up *Karma Police* with midnight, so my New Year would start with *Fitter Happier* as a list of resolutions. I didn't take the fact that crossfade was enabled on Spotify into account however, and that threw my timing off by a few seconds. But, the word "happier" ended up being the break of the new year, and aligned with my "Happy New Year!" Their live feed was about thirty seconds behind, so they all yelled it a bit later, in sync with the live feed.

That morning, New Year's Day, my buddy ended up staying over, so mom made us pancakes for breakfast, which is always welcome, and quite nostalgic to the sleepovers of my childhood, and we watched a couple episodes of *Pluribus* together before he headed out. I had already seen the first two episodes, but wanted to watch the rest with a friend, so we agreed on a time to meet next week so we could watch some more. That evening, one of my mother's old college roommates came over to have New Year's Day dinner with us, another family tradition, and we continued our New Year's tradition, which I had been absent from for a few years, of a dinner of pork tenderloin, black-eyed peas, collard greens, and corn bread.

The next day, Friday, I went over to my buddy's apartment. We were going to spend the following Saturday in town, and we decided it would be easiest if I just stayed over Friday night, as he lives within walking distance of a Commuter Rail station, which goes directly into town, instead of having to worry about driving and parking in Boston (which is a nightmare, for anyone who is fortunate enough not to have experienced it). That evening, he made a steak dinner, bust out a bottle of Goose Island Beer Co.'s Bourbon County Brand Stout, which is legendary enough on its own, but this bottle was also a 2017 vintage. Excellent beer, and excellent dinner. After that, we watched the first two episode of *Fallout* season 2 on Prime Video, before turning in for the night.

The next day, we got up and took the Commuter Rail into town. Service to North Station was down for the weekend, so we arrived at Porter Square, and took the Red Line down to Park Street, where we got off the T and started walking around. The Swan Pond at the Public Garden was completely frozen over, so we walked across it. I was stepping a bit gingerly, so my buddy jumped up and down on it several times to show how solid it was. There were also a bunch of kids playing hockey on it, so there's that. We walked down Newbury Street, feeling like tourists in the state we live in (well, he lives in it, I guess I am a tourist now), and stopped at a Greek spot for lunch. That was [Greco](https://maps.app.goo.gl/Cndj6F9nxHpLTb8m9), which was really good. I got gyros, which met my expectations, and a frappe. The thing is though, despite being in the middle of Boston, a Greek frappe is very different than a Bostonian frappe. A Bostonian frappe is just a milkshake. A Greek frappe is a strong iced coffee. I already had an espresso and a Moxie back at my buddy's place, so I was pretty wired after that.

After finishing our lunch, we stopped by Newbury Comics, the actual one on Newbury Street, and nerded out over all the cool stuff there for a bit. The whole basement was full of records and CDs, which I spent most of my time there looking at. They had tabs for Thom Yorke, *The Smile*, and *Atoms for Peace*, but all were empty, but the *Radiohead* tab was very much not empty, featuring almost every vinyl release the band had ever put out. (If my memory serves me correctly, they were missing *Kid A* and *The King of the Limbs*, and had all the non-studio album vinyl releases, those being *I Might Be Wrong*, *OKNOTOK*, and *KID A MNESIA.*) However, after realizing the price of a vinyl in Boston was two-three times the price of the exact same vinyl in Croatia, I decided not to buy any. I did however buy an *OK Computer* poster for $12, because I wasn't going to be leaving completely empty-handed.

After our pop into Newbury Comics, we decided we wanted to go to the Pru. There's a viewing deck on top of the Pru, and neither of us had ever been up there before, so we decided to give it a shot. After arriving there though and finding out it was $34 a head, we decided we didn't really want to go all the way up there that bad, so we popped by the [Tree House popup](https://maps.app.goo.gl/EKkoCfW6awzn3nnDA) downstairs for a drink. It was mostly a to-go shop, but they did have four beers on tap, I got a Bomb Cyclone double New England IPA, and my buddy got a Little Fire Oak smoked lager. Both were pretty good, but the popup was doing a bit of a disservice to the legendary beers Tree House brews by serving them to us in plastic cups. Oh well, at least we got Tree House without having to drive out past Worcester. We then walked over to Fenway Park, I bought another Red Sox cap, and there was a [Cisco Brewers popup](https://maps.app.goo.gl/B3YH2wKsmWgrvJra8) right outside Fenway Park, so we popped in there as well for a quick drink and snack. There were only like four customers there at three on a Saturday, but they had a couple of guys playing live music. Cool.

After that, we walked down to Northeastern to take the Orange Line into Charlestown. We both realized somehow neither of us had been to the Bunker Hill Memorial, so we decided to make the trip down. It was pretty cool, but the best part was the view of the skyline from Bunker Hill, and it was around sunset while we were there, which made it even cooler. After that, we went into Eastie to go to [Santarpio's](https://maps.app.goo.gl/3QQCjnYQr1ELceBn8), another family favorite spot, and one of the best pizzerias in Boston. My dad makes the distinction that it's not one of the best pizzas in Boston, but it's one of the best pizzerias, due to the whole experience and atmosphere there. I don't care about that distinction though, cause it's also my favorite pizza in Boston. And I live a few hours away from Italy, so that means something, I think! We got a pepperoni and sausage pizza, which was really good, but which we only ended up eating about half of, due to our plate of curly fries at Cisco just a few hours ago, and how wired I still was off all the caffeine I had. The other half was excellent the next morning, though.

After that, we went to the Museum of Science for the real reason we were in the city, *The Radiohead Experience.* Essentially, after the museum closes for the day, they put on a few afterhours shows at the planetarium, featuring songs from different artists along with planetarium visuals. Some of the other artists they do are Fleetwood Mac, Pink Floyd, Beyoncé, and Taylor Swift. But we were there for Radiohead. As we waited outside, a few minutes before the doors opened, *Let Down* played on the PA, letting us know we were in the right place. It was followed by *Everything in its Right Place*, after which the doors opened, and before the show started as everyone was sitting down, we were welcomed to *Kid A* and *The National Anthem.* The show itself was really cool. We had been last year, but felt the visuals were kinda lame, just generic planetarium stock footage slapped over Radiohead music. This year, it was a lot better. It still was just planetarium footage with no relation to Radiohead, other than when we were entering, a custom display with the *Hail to the Thief* album cover's wordstorm spiraling into a void wrapped by the *Kid A* album cover's mountains. But, the visuals were a lot more striking and exciting, and they fit the songs that were playing a lot better. The show started with 2 + 2 = 5, which had truly mind-bending visuals, it felt like the room was actually spinning. They toned down the spinning for the rest of the songs, but that was really cool. The set list for the show itself was as follows:

1. 2 + 2 = 5
2. Reckoner
3. You and Whose Army?
4. Karma Police
5. Nude
6. Glass Eyes
7. Paranoid Android
8. Idioteque
9. Fake Plastic Trees

The show only lasted about forty five minutes, but it was still wicked cool, and a pretty good way to spend $10 in Boston. (There's not much else you can do for that cheap in this town.) Would definitely recommend seeing it if you're a Radiohead fan, or check out the [Museum of Science's website](https://www.mos.org/visit/planetarium) to see if they have an artist or band you're more interested in (although I can't vouch for their quality, only having seen Radiohead there.) After that, we were completely wiped, so we called an Uber back to his place, rather than waiting two and a half hours to sit on the Commuter Rail for an hour.

The next day, we woke up, ran some errands, had some pierogi for lunch, and watched the rest of the *Fallout* episodes that were out. After that, we went back to my parents' place to meet with another friend to watch *The Departed.* *The Departed* is one of my favorite movies of all time, in fact it's my #4 pick on Letterboxd at the time of writing this, but despite both of these two having lived in Massachusetts for years, one for his whole life, neither had actually seen it. We ordered some pizza and wings, watched the movie, and everyone loved it. They made the connection that the blacked out Red Sox cap which I had bought the day before was the same one Leo's character wears for much of the movie. It is. They asked if that was why I bought it. It was. Not because I wanted to larp as Leo's character or anything, but just because I saw him wearing it in the movie and thought it looked cool, and I figured it would go better with my outfits than the classic navy and blue Red Sox cap I had.

The next couple days were pretty uneventful. Some last minute shopping for things I needed before flying back to Croatia Friday, hanging out at my parents' house with the family, and building this web site. My buddy who I watched *Pluribus* with did come over Tuesday night to watch a few more episodes, which we enjoyed. He came around dinner time, but the campus ministry he's apart of was doing a day of fasting for the beginning of the semester, so he turned his nose up at my parents' delightful cooking. Oh! The buddy I went into Boston with and was watching *Fallout* with also came over Thursday night to hang out one last time before I hopped back across the pond, my parents made steak for dinner, and we watched the most recent episode of *Fallout* that had come out the day before, that being season 2, episode 4.

Friday was my last day in the US this trip. Most of the morning was spent getting things together and packing my suitcases. I loaded up with everything I had come with, Christmas presents, and filled all the extra space I could with cans of Moxie, to bring them back for the Croatians to try. And also just because I like Moxie. Dad says it tastes like Dr. Pepper with ground up orange baby aspirin in it, but he's a hater. But I haven't had Dr. Pepper or orange baby aspirin, so I can't say definitively if he's actually incorrect. I said my goodbyes to my mom and brother, who had an appointment so they couldn't join us, then head into town with my dad. We met for one last farewell dinner with three of my buddies back at [Santarpio's](https://maps.app.goo.gl/3QQCjnYQr1ELceBn8), because it's in Eastie, basically at the airport's doorstep. Due to traffic and missed trains, all of them were late for one reason or the other, but we were fifteen minutes early. So, we ordered some of their lamb and homemade sausage for ourselves, and enjoyed those on our own. And they were excellent. (Although we ended up one piece of lamb for the first guy to get there.) Everyone got there eventually, we all hung out, had great pizza, had a great time, and two of them nerded out about the complexity of chess with my dad. (Engineers, man. I'm a web developer, I don't count.) We ordered two pizzas for the table, and this time, there were no leftovers. We then bid our farewells, because I had a flight to catch, but as soon as I said my goodbyes to everyone and went into the airport alone, it was delayed by an hour and fifteen minutes. Great, wish I knew that before I left!

Overall, it was a great trip, and it was really nice seeing everyone again, spending time with family, and visiting my home state, with slightly more touristy eyes than before. This last spring semester, we had a project for our web development class to build a website representing a city we had visited or lived in, and of course I chose Boston. Through that project though, I grew more homesick for Boston than I'd ever been in my life, and also learned a lot more about the city from a tourist's perspective, and a lot of those touristy things I either did on a school field trip or day trip with my parents when I was a kid, or just never actually did. So I had a bucket list of things I wanted to do this trip. We did most of them.