2025-05-21
Motovun
https://photos.smugmug.com/2025/Motovun---May-2025/i-mrZLdg4/0/MfRRvZKZmT2wDWCrDMLZqfp8KgFz4dCfMgpDr8PHJ/X2/IMG_9237-X2.jpg
May March to Motovun
May 21st, 2025 - May 22nd, 2025
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2025/Motovun---May-2025/n-6Xh7HB

Motovun is a small picturesque hilltop town on the northwestern Istrian peninsula of Croatia, practically at the dead center of the peninsula if you look at it on a map. When my buddy was coming to visit me in Croatia from Boston, he asked if we could visit Motovun. I took about a five second look at a Google Image search of the town and agreed. He found out about the town because Mario Andretti, a former F1 driver, grew up there. I'm not really into F1, but I was totally down to visit, because the town looked really pretty. Our bus left from Zagreb at around 9:30, and took us to Pazin, a nearby town. On the way to Pazin though, we had a fifteen minute stop in Rijeka, and when we got out to stretch our legs, I appreciated how much cleaner the bus station there was when it wasn't 11 PM after a carnival. From there, we took another, much smaller bus to Motovun, which stopped at the base of the hill. We then had to walk up the hill with our luggage, which wasn't exactly fun.

We checked into our AirBnB, unpacked our stuff, and rested for a bit before walking around the town for a bit. We went to [B5 Wine Bar](https://maps.app.goo.gl/M9RrLCsLSzbDDxZR8), which was a wine bar with an amazing view of the surrounding countryside, and had a charcuterie board (or whatever it's called na istrijskom) and a couple local Istrian beers. Istria's a wine country though, so I shouldn't be too surprised that the beers weren't that great.

After our drinks, we went to the Motovun bell tower. It looked like it was free to enter, but as we walked up to it, a lady ran from around the corner with a card reader and told us we needed to buy tickets. Writing this later, it sounds like a scam, but she gave us tickets, and the name on the bank statement checked out, so I guess it was legit. We went into the tower, and joked about the tower feeling like a badly designed video game interor. The height between stairs was comically high, and other staircases would lead directly into a wall, forcing us to step the long way backwards off the staircase to get to the next floor. After contorting our ways to the top of the tower, the view was really nice, though, so it was worth it. Getting down was equally as fun. I was wicked tired after that, and having recently lugged my luggage up the hill, but my buddy still had some energy, so we agreed I'd chill at the AirBnB for a bit, he'd explore, and we'd meet at six for dinner.

While I was walking back to the AirBnB, I passed the wine bar earlier, and the waiter stopped me and told me that I left my "thing" at the table, and handed me my buddy's Invisalign. He had left the case back in Zagreb, so he just wrapped it in a napkin while he was eating, and forgot to put it back in after we finished. He and a couple other of the waiters had a brief exchange in Croatian about what it was, and then gave it to me. I don't think the wait staff realized I spoke Croatian, even though I had ordered in Croatian and kept trying to speak Croatian with them earlier, they kept replying in English. Until I heard them speaking to each other, I wasn't even confident that they spoke Croatian. I guess they just assumed I was a tourist who picked up a few phrases. And to be fair, in Motovun, I absolutely was a tourist. But I thanked them, and continued on back to the AirBnB, where I briefly called dad before my buddy came back early, realizing he had forgotten his Invisalign. I gave it back to him, and after hanging out for about forty five minutes at the AirBnB, we went to get dinner.

We got dinner at a place called [Konoba Fakin](https://maps.app.goo.gl/eDw48ZYYkXiBEn5J8), right on the edge of the cliff, with a gorgeous view of the surrounding countryside. We got yet another charcuterie board, and some local Istrian wine, and those were amazing. I ended up buying a bottle of the wine we had to take home. Still haven't opened it, but it was really nice. My entrée was game ragout with roasted polenta, which was amazing. We definitely splurged a bit at this restaurant, but it was worth it. Besides, how often are we going to get to eat on a cliffside in Istria? Might as well get something worth the occasion. After that, we walked around the city a bit more, it was around sunset, and we ended up getting some really pretty photos. We then went back to our AirBnB, and turned in for the night. The next day, we would go to Trieste, which ended up being a lot more stressful than we would have liked, but that's a story for the Trieste post.