2025-01-12
Odesa
https://photos.smugmug.com/2025/Odesa---January-2025/i-BbDddVh/0/KL2QFN3T4ctw2s9CpCPxV8JNZkXztFmxdZSjDxZrQ/X2/IMG_6205-X2.jpg
Ukrainian Winter Beach Party
January 11th, 2025 - January 12th, 2025
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2025/Odesa---January-2025/n-dMHf26

Odesa! The first city in Ukraine I ever visited, and despite it being a lot "riskier" than Lviv, it's still one I keep finding myself returning to, much to my parents' chagrin. This trip, I was only spending a weekend there, and I arrived Saturday morning, and took a taxi to my buddy's apartment, who I was staying with. One of the things about Odesa is even though I speak Ukrainian, many Odesites, especially older ones, still don't, which makes communication more difficult when I don't really know Russian. They  basically all understand Ukrainian, of course, but many have a harder time or just prefer not to speak it. It's a perfectly normal exchange for one person to speak in Ukrainian, the other to respond in Russian, and both to understand each other. But when you only know one of the two common languages, that makes it a little harder. Such was the situation with my taxi driver, but we managed anyways.

Such is also the case with my buddy's wife. My buddy works for an American company, so he speaks English very well, so I was able to revert back to my native tongue, although his wife doesn't really speak English, and prefers to speak Russian. Her cousin was also visiting, who I for some reason assumed it would be a similar situation with, and my buddy would address me in English then say something to her in Russian, so I just assumed she didn't speak English. We were playing a card game and I was communicating with little broken fragments of mixed Russian and Ukrainian, and after about fifteen minutes of letting me do that, she said "You know, I studied English, you can speak English to me." Great, thanks for telling me, that certainly makes things easier.

After resting and hanging out at their apartment for a bit, we went into town. We grabbed a drink and some wings [U Khmilʹnoho Kabana](https://maps.app.goo.gl/7765hugsj9znWdRk9) (at the Hoppy Hog's), a taproom for an Odesite craft brewery, and probably my favorite craft brewery in Ukraine. After that, my buddy took me to a gaming lounge, [Onetab](https://maps.app.goo.gl/XeiAS32iXDGbTVDZ8), which was a really cool place, but after an hour there I decided that if I had two days in Odesa, I wasn't going to be spending them playing video games. So, we went to get actual lunch. He took me to [Fox & Pipe](https://maps.app.goo.gl/fTB4TdAUQnepMoWY7), an Irish Pub which we had been to the first time I went to Odesa, all the way back in 2021. Great spot, a little pricey for Odesa, but not so much per European standards of pricing. Definitely cheaper than Ireland. BeReal came while we were there, and I wrote a caption in Ukrainian which translates to "Bostonian comes to Odesa - immediately off to the Irish pub." After lunch, we went back to his apartment, I took a nap, they made dinner, and we hung out together for the rest of the evening.

The next day, we went back into town to get borsch at [Supstantsiya](https://maps.app.goo.gl/rA63GZCKWoYFN2Kv6), which was really good, and then I went to meet another friend who I hadn't seen in a couple years at a really nice coffee shop, [Ester](https://maps.app.goo.gl/yitQs1BqGngHTamQA). After that, I joined my friends for my Sunday church service, whose starting was delayed by a ballistic missile alert. Nothing actually happened, thankfully. And that was the only air alert that came while I was in Odesa this trip. The last time I was here, we sat through about a hundred kamikaze drones overnight and a cruise missile strike on the port the next morning, so I was grateful to enjoy Odesa with a little less noise. After that, the four of us went to a Crimean restaurant, [Khadzhibey](https://maps.app.goo.gl/1jSyeGLxcWYzmNVa8) for dinner, which was excellent. Definitely recommend. From there, I headed off to the bus station, and departed Ukraine, onwards to Bucharest, from where I would fly back to Zagreb via Zürich. I got a boat stamp in my passport though, since our bus left Ukraine via a ferry over the Danube, so that's cool.