2026-04-25
Rijeka
https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-2pS9xxg/0/MDT3nbw7cMcHjdMPct7Q58gprMxRWLPgpL2rTJRT3/X2/i-2pS9xxg-X2.jpg
El Rio
April 25th, 2026
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2026/Rijeka---April-2026/n-9xHDsg

When you have four upcoming project deadlines, finals in two weeks, and a major presentation, how do you spend your Saturday? That's right, running away from everything and catching a bus to the coast! The *International Students Club* at my university was organizing a trip to Rijeka this Saturday, so of course, I had to join. I'll never pass up a trip to the coast on the school's dime.

So, after getting a good six hours sleep, I left my apartment at 7:25 AM on a Saturday morning to catch the bus to Rijeka. I met with the other students who were going, and we boarded our bus. I ran out the door pretty quickly in the morning so I didn't have time to have a proper breakfast in the morning, so when we arrived at the bus station in Karlovac and the driver stopped the bus without any announcement of "10 minute break" or anything of the sort, I leaned back to ask the other students on the trip "you think we got a break or are we just disembarking here?" But, with my accent, despite being from Cleveland, he completely did not understand the word "disembarking." After laughing about that, the bus started moving, which answered my question.

After about another hour, we made it to the rest area in Ravna Gora, where we actually had a break, and weren't just "disembahkin'." No matter whether you're in Poland, Germany, or Croatia, the European gas station hot dog is elite. And [Tifon Kupjak](https://share.google/1Xj9OZOWBQB2TTZcU) did not disappoint. Got me a XXL paprika hot dog with chili sauce and a Cedevita for €5, and that hit the spot. After that, we got back on the bus and arrived at our final destination: Rijeka.

Rijeka (*literally meaning "River"*), for those who don't know, is a port city in northwestern Croatia, wedged in the "armpit" of Gorski kotar and the Istrian Peninsula, surrounded by three sides by mountains, which are part of the Dinaric Alps, and the Adriatic Sea on the fourth. While the port is largely industrial, the city itself is beautiful and vibrant, with vast waterfront promenades, a mix of Renaissance and Baroque architecture, and every time I've been there, there's been some kind of festival. (The first two times I went were specifically for their annual carnival, this time they were just having some children's festival on the main square.)

The first thing we decided to do was take a hike up to *Trsatski kaštel*, a 13th century castle in the mountains overlooking Rijeka. To get there, we had to climb the *Stube Petra Kružića*, a 561-step stairway leading up to the settlement of Trsat. Of the eleven of us that made the climb, five of us made it to the top without stopping. One of the guys was very surprised that I made it to the top, and asked if I go to the gym. I told him I didn't. He was even more impressed. Sure, I may be a fatass Yank, but I live on the 16th floor of my building. If there's one thing I can do, I can climb stairs.

After waiting ten to fifteen minutes for the rest of our party to finish their trek up (a couple of whom ended up calling a cab, cheaters), we entered the fortress. And the view was absolutely worth it. The fortress itself is beautiful, with an even more gorgeous view overlooking the city of Rijeka and the harbor, surrounded by mountains. The day was very clear, so we could see all the way to Istria on the other side of the harbor. There was a small café inside of the fortress, [Caffe bar Gradina](https://maps.app.goo.gl/qMfx62QN93GhgG9b8), which we stopped in for a coffee. Given the hike and that I was "on vacation," in a way, I decided to get myself a pint of their draft beer, which I immediately regretted. Not for any reasons related to alcohol consumption or other health effects, but because they really needed to clean their lines. But it was still a really cool café, and the service was great. But I probably should have gone with a coffee or an Aperol Spritz or something that's more "up their alley."

After our coffee, we took some group photos together and explored the fortress a bit, then head down the stairs back to the city to get lunch. We had a reservation at [El Rio](https://maps.app.goo.gl/pBttgFmPz5SYiUL8A), which was amazing. The prices were actually really reasonable for such a nice spot on the main square of the city, but that didn't actually matter, because the school was paying for our lunch. (We had a price limit but still, hell yeah.) I ended up getting the *Polpo nella salsa*, an octopus dish in a tomato sauce served with dollar chips. And that was excellent. (Pictures are in the attached gallery.)

After our lunch together, the girl who organized our trip told us we had "free time" now, and given that my project team mates were texting me about approving their GitLab commits, and my phone was at 13% charge, I decided to go on my own to find cute café where I could work and charge my phone. After looking for a cafe with outlets for about half an hour (including a short distraction to grab a frappé at an ice cream shop on the main square), I gave up and just went to McDonald's. After working and charging my phone for about an hour, I left to go explore the city a bit.

I forgot my headphones in the rush in the morning, so I stopped in the city's shopping mall, [Robna kuća Rijeka](https://maps.app.goo.gl/fAwjx8vLNUhTY947A) to grab a pair of cheap wired earbuds, and walked around the *Riva* for a bit. There were a **LOT** of fish in the harbor really close to the surface, so I sat for a bit just to watch them. After walking and exploring for a bit and enjoying the city, it was time to head back to the bus station to catch our bus back to Rijeka, so that we did.

Despite my meticulously organized lifestyle, our group was very much not that. So when we got on the bus, everyone just kind of sat where they wanted, despite it being a FlixBus, meaning we all had seat assignments. When we came here, nobody was sitting where they were supposed to, so it didn't matter. But the bus back was a different story. I sat in a random seat, and was kicked out. I then asked the girl organizing our group where I should sit, and she told me "you can sit anywhere, don't worry about it." I explained that I wanted to know what our seat assignments were, because I didn't want to move again, and she eventually gave me one. But I think I was the only one in our group who actually took a seat that belonged to one of us. A young woman escorting a couple of elderly relatives came to sit in the back of the bus only to find our group members in their seats, but of course instead of moving, they said "eh, sit where you want, it's not important." Clearly, it was important to these three that they sat together, but our guys wouldn't move for whatever reason. Great. After yelling at each other in the local language, which out of second hand embarassment for being in their group I was trying my best to drown out and not pay attention to, they arranged something and everyone got a seat in the end. But holy shit, just let these guys have their reserved seats together. How hard is a "you're in my seat," "oh sorry, I'll move"?

One cool thing about this trip though, to interrupt the complaining for a bit, is my friend got me to install the app [Bump](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/bump-hang-with-friends-irl/id6471519217) a few weeks ago, which has a really cool "fog of war" world map, which unveils hexes on the map as you travel. I'm not sure how I feel about sharing my precise geolocation 24/7, and I feel a little bit like a stalker every time I open the app and see my friend's location, but if she's not uncomfortable with it, I'm fine with it, and it's a cool app. And when you "unveil" a new hex, there's a little animation with a haptic that reveals the tiles one by one. So, despite any privacy concerns, it was *very* satisfying to watch all the hexes unveil one by one all the way along the road from Zagreb to Rijeka.

I joked earlier that we weren't the *International Student Club* but the *Montenegrin Student Club*, because the club leader and most of the people on the trip are from Montenegro. And maybe you'd think, given all the local jokes about it, they'd be sleepy or whatever, but these guys were **loud**. Practically yelling to talk to someone less than a meter away. So, despite my friends having a Discord watch party of *El Camino* at the same time as my bus trip, I didn't end up joining any Discord calls. I just stuck my earbuds in deep and watched the *Thom Yorke: Live at Sydney Opera House* concert film again. Love that show. I was planning to do some work when I got home, but I was so beat, I just got in bed and passed out before 9. So, sorry if my project team mates are reading this, I have all day today (Sunday) free to work 🙃