2025-03-02
https://photos.smugmug.com/2025/Rijeka---March-2025/i-TSRG2K2/0/LVpgF5dTK2vZ8mxkGNJdSz9GmTJHgKLMCqK6Nq6hn/X2/IMG_7592-X2.jpg
Mesar Riječke Luke
March 2nd, 2025
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2025/Rijeka---March-2025/n-MxJbcC

Every year, on the Sunday before Ash Wednesday, a carnival is hosted in Rijeka, on Croatia's northern coast. The first time I went to it was in 2023. I had just moved to Croatia a few months ago, and my buddy from Boston was visiting me, and a friend recommended we go to the Rijeka Carnival that Sunday. So we did. We didn't realize it was a costume event, so we just went as ourselves, but we had a good time enjoying the local cuisine, watching the parades, and admiring others' costumes. I didn't do anything in 2024, but this year, my friend was organizing a trip, and invited me to tag along. So I came.

I didn't want to spend a lot on a costume, and I didn't have a lot of potential options in my Zagreb apartment, but *Dexter* memes were popular at the time, so I wore a green jumper, bought nitrile gloves at a pharmacy near my apartment, and went as Dexter. As we were heading to the Zagreb Bus Station, one of the guys we were going with immediately said "Jesus Christ, Morgan. You're the Bay Harbor Butcher!" so I knew he got it. My friend had fake blood as a part of her costume, which I used liberally, and another of the guys on the trip had an array of fake weapons for his costume, including one of those toy knives that retract when you stab someone, so I took that too.

The bus to Rijeka was fairly uneventful. I watched a couple of episodes of *Dexter* on my phone to re-establish my character, we stopped for a sandwich and a drink, and then after about three hours, we arrived in Rijeka. After walking around for twenty five minutes or so, the first thing we did is grab a drink. We had coffee and beers at some coffee shop on Jadranski trg which I didn't bother keeping track of the name of, and from there we went into the carnival. Well first, I stopped at Mlinar and bought a box of a dozen donuts, which I then walked around offering to the others until we were out, to more firmly establish my character.

The parade of the carnival was on that day, so several floats with groups of a dozen or more people wearing similarly themed costumes, if not identical costumes, would drive through the city, and we would watch them pass, as they danced around and played music. Some of the ones I remember were a bunch of guards from *Squid Game*, a bunch of hobbits, and a "Make America Great Again" float with a bunch of pro-Trump banners (shouldn't you guys be focusing on Croatia?) We explored the city a bit, climbed up a million-odd stairs to get a really nice view of the city, met some local cats, and had a pretty good dinner in a quieter neighborhood of the city at [Carraca Pub](https://maps.app.goo.gl/g1fT4wxrbQMCG4RE6).

After dinner, we all reconvened, went to a kinda lame rave on the main square for a bit, where I met some Nazgul — well, more accurately a couple of Witch Kings — asking me if I had seen any hobbits around, whom I told I hadn't, but I'd let them know. (We met the hobbits shortly after.) After that, we went back to the bus station, which was in a completely disgusting state the night after the carnival, totally trashed. Our bus was also an hour and a half late, meaning we had to sit around at this pigsty of a bus station for way longer than anyone should have to. Sitting across the aisle from me on the bus was a very drunk German college kid, who kept making the same joke over and over to a very uninterested Croatian woman: "What sound does a Croatian chicken make? 'Bok, bok, bok!'" ("Bok" means "hi" or "bye" in Croatian, used similarly to the Italian "ciao".) Despite that, I fell asleep pretty quickly, and slept for most of the ride back to Zagreb.