2026-03-08
Rovinj
https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-qK4jmZ8/0/LM5BbwwKwh6sfWGFLmV8fHBzQFgtLMXmX8DnSR5hk/X2/i-qK4jmZ8-X2.jpg
Roving in Rovinj
March 8th, 2026
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2026/Rovinj-March-2026/n-CfcW48

Been a minute since I wrote here. Been in Zagreb, nose to the grindstone, you know how it is. Anyways, school club offered an opportunity to get out of the city for a day and head down to the coast, so I jumped on that. So, I get up on a Sunday morning after having a midterm a few days before, and two more the next day, and drag myself to the bus station to catch a 7:50 bus to Rovinj with the International Students Club at my university. A couple of familiar faces, but mostly people I hadn't met yet. Cool. The bus ride from Zagreb to Rovinj was about four hours, and went by uneventfully.

After arriving in Rovinj, half of the people were just one big friend group, so they just split off to go do their own thing. The rest of us also started exploring the city, with the only instruction given from the club leader being "be back at the bus station by 17:30 for the bus back to Zagreb. Alright, hands off, great. Honestly, even though there's not much "communal spirit" in it, I think I'd rather be left to my own devices for five hours in a city I'd never been to than try to wrangle with a group of fifteen people who all have different ideas about how they want to spend their day off. But the other six of us or so decided to stick together and explore a bit.

We wandered down to the harbor, where we saw the view of the "main city" or however it's called, a big hill on a peninsula with a big ol' church on the top. Destination acquired. So we started walking that way. The town was super pretty, narrow cobblestone streets, barely any cars, and lots of people, both locals and tourists, out and about on this Sunday morning. After questioning ourselves if we were going the right way through the alleys and reassuring everyone "we're still going up, up is good", we eventually made it to the church. The church was a moderate-sized Catholic church, as one might expect in Croatia. It was called [Crkva sv. Eufemija](https://maps.app.goo.gl/bWYWKhC8h7wqFxwT6), or St. Euphemia's Church. After leaving our Muslim buddy outside, who didn't want to set foot inside the church during Ramadan, we all went in. It was wicked pretty inside, and we sat in the pews for a bit, marveled at the architecture, a couple of us prayed. After that, we decided to go up to the bell tower. After paying €4 a head for entry, we turned the corner into the bell tower to find a wicked precarious staircase. The stairs consisted of wooden "boards," which were much narrower than a foot was long, with several inch gaps beneath them with about a fifty foot (fifteen meter) drop to the next set of stairs below. Some were a bit rickety, and some of the boards weren't in the best shape, so we climbed to the top very gingerly. (I did not get any pictures because I was too preoccupied on the climb, but if you look up "Rovinj scary stairs" on Google, there is a wealth of images.) The staircase looped about six times or so before we reached the top. But the view was gorgeous. Was it worth it? Probably. Going down was even worse though.

After finally making our way out of the bell tower, we explored the city a bit more, getting some more pictures, before finding lunch. We stopped by [Restaurant LaRiva](https://maps.app.goo.gl/CPBvSe28ifFZ8fz97), which was a nice little spot on the waterfront promenade (riva is certainly easier to say, for those who speak Croatian :) ). Despite everyone expressing interest in lunch, when we actually got to the restaurant, everyfone else ended up just getting coffee or booze, while I was the only one to order food. Typical Yank, huh? I got the grilled squid with chard and a Greek salad, and was a little concerned when it came out hot and ready in like two minutes, before anyone had even gotten their drinks. But it was wicked good. We sat there for an hour or so, and then went to keep exploring the city for a bit.

Two of the girls with us decided to go off and explore on their own, leaving four of us. We explored a bit, chatted some more, got some pictures, but the other girl with us was getting picked up by car to head back to Zagreb early, so after half an hour of exploring, then there were three. So the three of us explored for a bit more, chatting, and decided to stop for ice cream at a little spot we saw on the riva (I am not saying waterfront promenade anymore. I will not.), [aROMA gelato experience Boutique](https://maps.app.goo.gl/Zyqajs2xcB8nBiLWA). There I learned that if you say "frappe" like you're from Boston (rhymes with trap), and not frappé (frah-PAY), nobody will have any idea what you're talking about. But what I ended up getting was a frappe, not a frappé, so I feel vindicated. As I went to pay with cash, they asked if I could pay with small coins, because they couldn't break my €10. And thanks to my coin wallet, small coins I had. After giving them a small pile of around two dozen coins, I expected them to be annoyed with me, but literally all the workers there were expressing their gratitude for the small coins, so yeah. And the frappe was good.

After walking around the riva for a bit more, I was kinda tired, and didn't really want to participate in the political direction the other two's conversation was heading in, so I parted ways and went over to the bus station to study a bit for one of the next day's midterms. I studied there for an hour and a half or so before leaving to catch the bus back to Zagreb. Overall, Rovinj was a nice little city, and I really enjoyed the trip. Definitely needed a break with how stressed I've been this semester, and Rovinj certainly provided. Although I could have done without that staircase :)