2025-05-22
Trieste
https://photos.smugmug.com/2025/Trieste---May-2025/i-tZzcgBh/0/KkKKBDK7NJk9LH4qpRZSSVNrK5X5ZwNhQj2pXVLcx/X2/IMG_9386-X2.jpg
Resting in Trieste
May 22nd, 2025
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2025/Trieste---May-2025/n-TpTX5g

Onto Trieste. We were going from Motovun, where we had spent the night before, and which was much closer to Trieste than Zagreb. The original plan was to take a bus from Pazin to Trieste, which left at 6:30 AM. However, the earliest bus from Motovun to Pazin was around 9 AM, and there weren't later buses to Trieste that day. But, Uber claimed to operate in the area, so about a month in advance, we scheduled an Uber ride to take us from Motovun to Pazin at 5:30. At around 5:20, I got a notification from Uber that they were searching for a driver. Okay, that's concerning, since we booked a ride a month in advance, they shouldn't have to search so close to our departure. After a few delays and automated apologies, they ended up cancelling the ride. Great. There was no other way for us to get to Pazin, so we started rebooking. There was no feasible way to get to Trieste that day, but there was a bus to Rijeka, so we decided we'd spend the day in Rijeka, then go back to Zagreb in the evening. We had changed all our tickets and paid the rebooking fees when I got a text message from an unknown number.

It was our bus driver, telling us he was waiting for us at the bus station in Pazin. Okay, that's not service I've gotten before, but I briefly explained the situation to him, and apologized that we wouldn't be making the bus. After a couple minutes of silence, he texts back "For 50 euros I can come pick you up in Motovun if you want." The Uber would have been €52, so we agreed, and he told us he'd be there in twenty minutes, and to meet him at the bottom of the hill. So, we met him there. Turns out, it was a minibus, and we were the only two passengers on the bus from Pazin to Trieste that day, so he had some wiggle room to work with. Great. I cancelled the buses and rebooked our bus back to Zagreb once again, according to the original plan. After about an hour drive, we were in Trieste.

My buddy's aunt was married to a guy from Trieste, and she was absolutely in love with the city, so she gave us a whole essay about the city, recommending hotels to stay in, where to eat, what to see, etc. We didn't have the same kind of budget as my buddy's aunt, and only had about eight hours in the city, so we followed a very loose interpretation of her paragraphs and paragraphs raving about the city. We did go see some of the more notable sights she mentioned, at least the ones within walking distance of the city center.

The first thing we did is grab some breakfast near the bus station, at [Caffè Tommaseo](https://maps.app.goo.gl/eJwYThGRpj9TYs7X8). I ended up getting a breakfast platter with some toast, cold cuts, eggs, pancakes, and fresh fruit. It wasn't the most "Italian" breakfast there was, but Italian breakfast pastries tend to be very sweet, and I like my breakfasts a little more savory. When in Rome..., I know, but we were in Trieste, not Rome, so it doesn't apply! I also got an Irish coffee, an actual Irish coffee, not the Croatian kind. When you order an Irish coffee in Croatia, you get a Nescafé Irish Cappuccino, which is just a creamy slightly liquory flavor packet. But in Italy, I could finally get an actual Irish coffee! Whiskey, Bailey's, espresso, cream, and topped with cocoa powder. It was truly something beautiful.

After that, we walked around the city for a few hours. We saw the main square, some Roman ruins, sat at the port for a bit admiring the view, and took some pictures with a random Roman arch imitating the dumb tourist photos with the Leaning Tower of Pisa. We also discovered that their public toilets were Turkish toilets, with about the level of cleanliness you expect from public Turkish toilets. Thanks, Trieste. After that, we went to an outdoor hilltop bar, [Barakin San Giusto](https://maps.app.goo.gl/Kz1nyfxZPEEgE4mBA), for some drinks and snacks, which was pretty nice. The bar was right outside the city's main cathedral, so after finishing our drinks, we went to explore that. It was also wicked pretty, and we happily paid the extra euro or so to access the upper levels. Amazing view from the tower.

After that, we went to find lunch. We popped into a pizzeria that was highly rated and seemed pretty popular, but after sitting there for twenty five minutes, waving down waiters and making eye contact with them on several occasions, they never even brought us menus, so we walked a bit more until we found another spot, where we were actually served in a timely fashion, [Roma 4](https://maps.app.goo.gl/KLzQfjSoS5kcZcav9). I just got a tuna salad and a beer, but it was the best tuna salad I had had in my life. After that, we went to the bus station, waited for our bus, which was about half an hour late, and went back to Zagreb. Despite the trouble getting there, Trieste was definitely worth the visit. We didn't really do much in the day we were there, so I'd definitely love to return and see more. We could see some really interesting sights when we were looking around from the port, including Miramare Castle and the Monte Grisa Temple, which looked really impressive from afar, but were way too far to get to from the city in a day trip. Next time.