2026-06-16
Varaždin
https://photos.smugmug.com/2026/n-26jttw/Vara%C5%BEdin-June-2026/i-bg55ZHV/0/MT2vjQ6PBCNfbHDXXwbxQNHpXsvjV5HTNTXPB5c3W/X2/DSC_0333-X2.jpg
The Whimsy Five
June 16th, 2026
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2026/n-26jttw/Vara%C5%BEdin-June-2026

Over the last four weeks, as I mentioned in my [Brijuni](#/blog/brijuni2026) post, I've been mentoring a cohort of study abroad students from the States. Half of them will be here until mid-August, but half are leaving at the end of June. But, this Thursday, June 18th, I'll be flying to Boston for a couple weeks, so I won't be around to see them off. And given my luck, my closest friends from that group are all in the cohort that's leaving earlier. So, this was kind of a "goodbye day trip" to my four best friends on this trip, or as we've decided to call ourselves, the Whimsy Five. (*I suppose the Whimsical Five would be more grammatically correct, but who cares?*)

So, we took a bus trip up to Varaždin, a pretty little town in northern Croatia, about an hour and a half by bus north of Zagreb. Two of them were skipping class (*which, as their mentor and a representative of the university, I whole-heartedly denounce*), while two had class until 2:30. Our bus left at 3:00, so our plan was as soon as they got out of class, to get a cab to the bus station. And that's what we did. They ended up getting out of class twenty minutes early, so we decided to stop at [Vincek](https://maps.app.goo.gl/cFk4Q949ffxD1zq38) for ice cream, where we ran into two friends of mine. Given that neither of them live in Zagreb, and have been out of Zagreb for most of the summer, it was cool to see them, albeit briefly. Then, we called a cab. It took **forever** to arrive. I was watching the Uber app, and the driver was just taking all the worst turns possible, making an "arriving in 6 minutes" take closer to twenty. Eventually, we arrived, and we got to the bus station with about four minutes to spare. Thankfully, our other friends were already there, had found the platform, and warned the bus driver that we were coming, but we still hauled ass across that bus station, as the platform was literally the furthest one from our drop-off point.

The bus to Varaždin passed relatively uneventfully, just a lot of yap from us. Once we got there, all of our phones were pretty low on charge, and the outlets on the bus hadn't been working (Thanks, Flixbus), so we decided to go to the restaurant first thing to eat and charge our phones. One of my buddies is from Varaždin, so I had asked him a few days prior for a list of places to eat and drink. We looked at the four restaurant options he had sent us, and opted for [Restoran Domenico](https://maps.app.goo.gl/Ey4jRHghVLJUxdA59). And wow, no slight to the other three restaurants, but that was the right choice. It was pretty quiet on a Tuesday afternoon, so the waiter was easily able to accomodate us, and allowed us to unplug some lamps to charge our phones, which was wicked nice. The waiter was super friendly too, asking us about where we were from, giving good recommendations, et cetera. I told him I was from Boston, and later when he walked by our table, he shouted "Let's go Bruins!" Fuckin' A, guy. We got some bread for the table to start, lepinja with cheese and garlic, which was great, and didn't survive for too long. Then, the entrées arrived. A friend and I were splitting the titular "Domenica Platter," which was a grilled meat, vegetable, and potato platter for two, and wow, definitely needed that. Two kinds of ćevapi (ordinary beef ćevapi, and cheese-filled beef ćevapi), grilled chicken thigh, punjena vješalica, grilled mixed vegetables, potato wedges, just amazing.

After eating, we decided to explore the city a bit. We walked through a couple squares, one of which had a traditional pump fountain for drinking, which we very happily tried. One of my friends commented on it having a heavy flow, as it certainly wasn't lacking in the water pressure department, and I quipped that it must be having a heavy flow day. Not all of my jokes land, but that one did. From there, we went over to what is probably Varaždin's most famous landmark, Stari grad. Stari grad Varaždin is a large 12th-century fortress in the middle of Varaždin, and serves as a museum of Varaždin's artistic and military history today. We didn't end up going in this trip, but there were large earthen ramparts surrounding the castle, so we walked up on those. We stood atop one point where there was a little bit of a hill, with a tree and a great view, and chilled there for a bit. Several of us tried to climb the tree, and one succeeded at getting pretty high up in the branches. The thing is, the tree was growing right off the edge of the cliff, and it was probably a twelve meter (forty foot) drop, so getting down was precarious. He decided to do a roll as he landed, and rolled right towards the edge of the cliff, stopping less than a foot (about twenty centimeters) from the edge of the cliff. After telling him off a bit for that, we got some pictures and moved on.

We got to a part of the rampart where there was a large, open field below, and decided to roll down the rampart. I lagged behind to record them rolling, and when it went to roll myself, I hesitated and while adjusting my position ended up getting caught in a slide down the hill, as it was wicked steep, and slid on my ass all the way to the bottom. Grass and dirt stains all over the seat of my pants, great. We hung out in that field for a bit and kicked around a hacky sack for a bit, and then decided to go get a drink before our bus. We went to one of the pubs my local buddy had recommended, [Medonja](https://maps.app.goo.gl/gXQkcTXKEpRW9Ecz7), advertising "have a beer with a bear." We didn't see any bears, but they had a lot of Pivovara Medvedgrad beers, so I guess that counts in a way. I got their new Veliki Medo beer, and one of my buddies got a black and tan of Zlatni Medo and Grička vještica, so there was definitely some bear representation. Over our beers, we reminisced over the last few weeks in Croatia, and how quickly we had become such close friends. We agreed that as we all went back to the States, we'd keep in touch, try to meet whenever all of us were back, and have an occassional game of Among Us.

But the night wasn't over just because we had to take a bus back to Varaždin. We had a more muted bus ride back to Zagreb, a lot less yap, and then decided to all take the tram to my place to watch *Good Will Hunting*, which is my favorite movie of all time. We met a cool German guy on the tram, grabbed some snacks and drinks at a kiosk, listened to the A side of *Heavy Metal* by Cameron Winter, and then after navigating through like twelve countries' Netflixes to try to find the movie, eventually found it on British Prime Video. Given that it was already about eleven P.M. when we started the movie, a couple of us who had already seen it were in and out a bit in the middle, but I made sure all of us were awake for the ending. This kid was snoring during the scene where Sean and Lambeau have their big fight, and I feel like I channeled Chuckie when I yelled "who the fack is snawrin'??" Then I cried like a baby during the "it's not your fault" scene.

I'm gonna miss the Whimsy Five. I love you guys, come back to Croatia any time. See you soon, whether that be in the States or Europe. (And I still have one more day with them here, but that's not making the blog 😉)