2025-01-02
https://photos.smugmug.com/2025/Warsaw---New-Year-s-2025/i-TK6ssBf/0/NLHQBRtGnPPV7swb5zBSPmjKgV6dtbH8jKPhGjfdn/X2/IMG_5598-X2.jpg
New Year's in Warsaw
December 29th, 2024 - January 2nd, 2025

Warsaw, New Year's, 2025. My original plan was to go to Milan for New Year's, fly to Warsaw after, and then take a bus from there into Ukraine on the second. I still ended up taking the bus into Ukraine, but plans fell through in Milan, so I decided to go to Warsaw early and spend a few days there. One of my buddies from uni asked me if I had any plans for the new year, and I told him about this, and he asked if he could join me. I said sure, as long as he paid his share. So we went to Warsaw together.

I was spending Christmas back in Boston, so what I ended up doing is spending sixteen hours in transit getting back to Zagreb from Boston, spending four and a half hours at home unpacking, repacking, and recuperating, and then immediately going back to the airport to fly to Milan. After spending another ten hours waiting at Milan airport, I flew to Warsaw, and immediately went to my AirBnB to rest for a bit. My buddy was already there, and we both agreed we were hungry, so we went to a Polish restaurant, [Restauracja Na Wileńskiej](https://maps.app.goo.gl/MzvbuBR9BvJ735hEA), down the street (I guess in Poland, that's just a restaurant), had some lunch, and immediately went back to the AirBnB and took a nap.

After I woke up, we discussed what we actually wanted to do in Warsaw, because I'm not the kind of person who plans out everything before I go somewhere. Maybe I should though, so I spend less time at the destination figuring out what I want to do. We decided to take a train to Malbork Castle, which is apparently the largest in the world, and the port city of Gdańsk, and bought tickets for the next day. After that, we went to a bar down the street, [White Crow](https://share.google/ebteHujpr46wqCMlh), which was an Untappd verified venue, and also had pretty good food.

The next day, we went to Malbork and Gdańsk, which were pretty cool, I'll probably end up writing another post about that, because that was a great trip, but this post is about Warsaw.

The day after we went to Malbork and Gdańsk was Tuesday, New Year's Eve, and we started the day with exploring the city. Our first stop after leaving the apartment was lunch, which we got at [Pierogarnia Syrena Irena](https://maps.app.goo.gl/d1frZMifhNctZwtR7). I really enjoyed my borsch and pierogi, but my buddy — who, relevantly, is a Bosnian Muslim — didn't realize the soup he ordered had bacon in it, so he wasn't as happy as I was. The wait staff brought him another soup free of charge though, and I enjoyed his bacon soup. After that, we explored the city center, walking around for a few hours before getting exhausted and going back to our AirBnB, where I watched Squid Game 2. After some time there, we went out to find dinner. A lot of businesses were closed at that point, but we ended up going to [Kebab King](https://maps.app.goo.gl/pPSgB9CTYqN1xeN17), a Turkish restaurant, which my Bosnian buddy ended up being quite happy with — surprise, surprise. We then went to Żabka, a Polish corner store chain, to buy a few bottles of beer, and went to a bridge to watch the New Year's fireworks. The bridge was dual-use pedestrian and railway, and it was a little shaky for my liking standing on the edge with my phone out whenever a train passed, but the view was definitely worth it.

New Year's Day, we ended up sleeping in pretty late, but we didn't want to sit around all day, so we went to the center to see the Palace of Culture and Science. But first up, of course, lunch. We went to [PierOgarnia](https://maps.app.goo.gl/iHqCTHFtgift97Ai8), which was a very good pierogi restaurant, but much to my chagrin, my buddy didn't want to order anything from there, and I found this out after I ordered my food, so I ate while he sat there and watched. They were good pierogi, he was missing out! We then went to a kebab place next door, [Delikatessen Döner Kebap](https://maps.app.goo.gl/PwHC7ZoZnLGKtquXA), so he could get something to eat, and while I can't vouch for anything, having been full of pierogi, he certainly seemed to be happy with it. We then went to the Palace of Culture and Science, only to find out it was closed for New Year's Day. We got some ice cream and plenty of pictures, and then went back to our AirBnB for a nap. After our nap, we got dinner and drinks at [White Crow](https://share.google/ebteHujpr46wqCMlh) again, which was definitely one of our favorite spots there. The next morning, I got up early to go to the bus station, caught my bus to Ukraine, and left Poland.

Overall, I'd say it was a great trip, I really enjoyed it, would definitely visit again. Good beer, pretty city, lots of stuff to see, and I felt like with my jet lag and general travel exhaustion, I barely scratched the surface of things to see in Warsaw. And I don't think I've ever met a pierog I didn't like.