2026-01-09
https://photos.smugmug.com/photos/i-TFNx8mM/0/NbktpskZFvMCCCKKBRrZkzdFgHcWvdS28Lwv2T982/X3/i-TFNx8mM-X3.jpg
Shipping Back up to Boston
December 17th, 2025 - January 9th, 2026
https://gitrogdev.smugmug.com/2026/Massachusetts---New-Year-s-2026/n-TwR4g8

This has been the longest stretch I've been away from "home." I guess I'd call Zagreb home at this point, but Massachusetts was home for the first nineteen years of my life, so it gets the title too. From home to home. In the previous years, I'd gone back two or three times a year. This last year, I left Boston on December 28th, 2024, to spend New Year's in Warsaw, and didn't come back until December 17th, 2025. So, almost a whole year, give or take a week and a half. Needless to say, I was excited to be heading back. I was a little nervous, as I didn't know how different things would be, as I hadn't yet been to the States during Trump's second term, and from what I was hearing on the news constantly, things didn't sound great. But honestly, as a white dude from Boston, other than an absolutely crazy news cycle, and the general state of the economy meaning my Euro debit card was worth a lot more, nothing actually ended up being noticeably different.

My flight back to Boston was pretty uneventful. Took a taxi to the airport at about 6:30 AM, ended up telling the taxi to turn around after two minutes because I realized I should probably crack my windows and turn off my heat, and got through Zagreb airport without issues. I had a two hour layover in Istanbul, which ended up being extended to a three hour one due to a delay. Flew to Boston, and on the flight I watched *Captain America: Brave New World*, *The Godfather*, a live recording of a Pixies concert, and a clean version of *Good Will Hunting*, for which I found the Turkish Airlines family friendly dub over half the words in the film very amusing. After arriving in Boston, I got through passport control without any issues, was immediately greeted by my bag as it came onto the baggage claim at the exact same moment I walked up to it, and left the airport to go to the dropoff/pickup lane to meet my father. Turned out he had parked, and had been waiting for me by the exit to the baggage claim, but we missed each other somehow. Oh well. We drove back to my parents' house, I had a bite to eat and hung out with my parents for an hour and a half, and then went to sleep.

The next day was uneventful. I woke up wicked early (around 3 AM) due to my jet lag (that would be 9 AM in Croatia), and mostly lounged around the house that day. My brother was due to come home from college that day, but he had the flu, so he decided to give it a day to let his symptoms abate. He would have waited until the weekend, but it turns out his school's dining halls closed for the winter break sooner, so he decided to risk it, and self-isolate in his room for a few days. Just in case, my dad and I went to CVS that day to get our flu shots. They also gave me a COVID booster with it, for whatever that's worth. Afterwards, I decided to look into getting a new US SIM card. I was applying for a lot of US jobs for summer internships, and none of them were really interested in calling a Croatian number, and my original US number charged $10 a day just to have active while abroad, even if I didn't use any data, make or take any calls, or send or receive calls, so that wasn't really an option. T-Mobile seemed to have a pretty good international plan, which would allow me to receive calls internationally without paying for any roaming data, so I contacted a salesperson about that. I found out it was as described, but would cost $90 a month. When I told the salesperson that I wasn't ready to commit to anything today and was just reviewing my options, they really didn't like that, and were completely baffled by the concept of reviewing all my options before I come to a $90/month decision. I ended up just getting a Google Voice number.

The next day, with my new Google Voice number set up, I applied for a bunch of jobs. Despite having quit Roblox development, my universtiy's job board was offering a Roblox internship, and it was $60 a month, so I ended up applying. I ended up spending two hours playing these stupid "optimize production in this factory" and "build a robot to cross the obstacle games." Okay, I get wanting to test for problem solving skills, but two hours of content that has nothing to do with the job I'm applying for?? And they ended up rejecting me anyways. Oh well. I then went to hang out with my buddy, we hung out at his house for a while, his parents made steaks, and then we went to get frozen yogurt at [Menchie's](https://maps.app.goo.gl/CDabxoLKsfqkqUUa7). I don't think my brain had fully comprehended I was back in the US yet, because as soon as we walked in, there were a bunch of teenagers in there, and hearing them all talking and being loud, as teenagers do, I thought to my self "wow, this place is full of Americans!" Crazy that. We listened to *In Rainbows: From the Basement* in the car, and I think I enjoyed it a lot more than my buddy did, who said "he needs to listen to albums over several times before he can come to an opinion." Very polite.

The next day I ended up spending with my buddy and his new girlfriend (and by new, they had been dating for almost a year, but she wasn't there last time I was in town). We did some Christmas shopping, well, more accurately they did, grabbed lunch at [Friendly's](https://maps.app.goo.gl/TQgfDHvwnys6xNb69), which was pretty good, always love their ice cream, and the buffalo chicken tenders and slaw I got were solid too. After that, we did some more shopping, then went to hang out at his place. He made us dinner, and we watched the first few episodes of *Fallout* on Prime Video. I had already seen season 1, and the first episode of season 2 had just come out, but my buddy hadn't seen any yet, so we ended up starting season 1 together. He would then go to watch the rest of season 1 on his own, so we could watch season 2 for the first time together. It's a solid show, definitely keeps some of Fallout's humor and is faithful to the style of the games, but definitely does some weird things with the plots and factions of the games. But if you turn off your nerd brain and just watch the show, it's pretty good.

The next day, we went to a Christmas service, where I connected with some old buddies, and after that we went to get lunch. We went to the [Horse Shoe Pub](https://maps.app.goo.gl/krAzLK5MtyiYzneV7), which was really good, we got an appetizer of poutine, and I ended up ordering the Guinness Pot Pie, which was excellent. After that, one of my buddies had to be home for a meeting, so we dropped him off, then the remaining two of us drove around a bit more, and ended up driving to Arlington to take some pictures of the city (one of which I used as the thumbnail for this post!) Whenever we're driving into town, I always love that view, so I wanted to find somewhere good to capture it, and I think I did pretty well. Even though I brought my camera back to Massachusetts though, I didn't bring it that day, so I ended up taking the pictures with my iPhone. And I also didn't realize I'd be getting a new phone later that day, both of which would have made for a better picture. The next day, we would fly to Florida to spend Christmas with my grandparents, so that evening we had a "Christmas: Part 1" with my family. We decorated the tree, and exchanged any gifts that were too big or fragile to take to Florida. Like I mentioned a couple sentences ago, my father got me a new phone, which was despartely needed, since my 13 Pro Max had suffered a pretty good drop, and was constantly facing heat issues. My aunt also got me Pixies' *Doolittle* on vinyl, a *Hail to the Thief* poster, and a *Doolittle* tee. She gets me.

We then flew off to Florida to spend the next week with my grandparents. But this is a Massachusetts post, so that'll get its own post.

After returning to Massachuestts, we went to church together again the next morning, after which I went to Wendy's with a few old buddies (different ones from last week), and spent time catching up with them. Back when I was a teenager, the youth ministry guys would go out to Wendy's every week after Sunday service, so that brought back some memories. We spent the rest of the day hanging out at home, ordered Chinese for dinner, and watched the new *Knives Out* movie, *Wake Up Dead Man*, which we really enjoyed.